 Good Tuesday. Here’s what we’re watching: • Gary Cohn is exiting the White House. • Why Cfius thinks Broadcom’s bid for Qualcomm is a national security matter • A top aluminum lobbying group argues against tariffs • Should mutual funds become activists on guns? • Could the Trump tariffs be weakened? Want this in your inbox every morning? Sign up here. Will the gains investors have made under President Trump now walk out the door, too? Mr. Cohn was an influential figure in the White House. As the president’s top economic adviser, he opposed policies, like the tariffs announced last week, that go against the prevailing global economic order. Now that Mr. Cohn is leaving, investors may fear that Mr. Trump and others in his administration will step up their assault on globalism, stoking the chances of a trade war and other tensions that damage the real economy. Mr. Cohn has telegraphed his unhappiness with some of President Trump’s policies, so his departure may not come as a surprise to investors. They also may believe that the chaos in the White House will limit the administration’s ability to deliver on policies investors don’t like. And of course, investors may hope that Mr. Trump, unwilling to see the stock market’s gains unwind, stays his hand. It’s even possible that Mr. Trump will keep talking to Mr. Cohn after he leaves, or that he will replace Mr. Cohn with someone with similar views, like Larry Kudlow. Still, the Dow Jones industrial average may open sharply down on Wednesday morning. The markets were rattled in August when there were rumors that Mr. Cohn might resign. And futures markets on Tuesday evening pointed to a lower open. But even if there is no plunge, now is a moment for investors to make up their minds about populism. For two years, the markets have consistently shrugged off everything from Britain’s departure from the European Union to the election of Mr. Trump to the rise of non-mainstream parties in Europe. Investors could look the other way because global growth was picking up, and Mr. Trump was introducing pro-business policies like tax cuts and deregulation. But investors and populists are entwined in a way that is not obvious. Right now, economies are suffering from what could be called “Toxic Goldilocks Syndrome.” The stimulus of central banks has delivered moderate economic growth and steady returns for investors that keep them happy. At the same time, though, the central bank’s policies have struggled to solve deeper problems like income inequality and low labor market participation. As these persist, they provide fuel for populist candidates. What could change now? With Mr. Cohn leaving, one of Mr. Trump’s policies may end up causing real economic damage. That’s a concern of investors, at least. But then much depends on how the Federal Reserve responds. If, say, Mr. Trump’s tariffs dampened growth this year, the Fed might choose to raise interest rates once, rather than three times, in effect helping investors and the White House. But there is a much brighter scenario. Despite the deeper economic problems and the tumult over trade, growth picks up to a level that causes a real bump in wages this year, and Mr. Trump decides to bask in that success, rather than aiming a wrecking ball at the international economic order. But who’s around now to make that argument? — Peter Eavis Cfius said that Broadcom’s proposed deal to acquire rival chip maker Qualcomm could pose a national security risk and called for a full investigation into the hostile bid, according to a letter from a United States Treasury official. The letter goes on to say: The move complicates an already contentious deal, increasing the likelihood that Broadcom will end its pursuit of Qualcomm. Such investigations are often death knells for corporate deals. Cfius said that the potential risk was related to Broadcom’s relationships with foreign entities. A spokesman for Broadcom told DealBook in a statement, “we are fully cooperating with Cfius.” Michael’s take Though Cfius stressed the importance of protecting national security, relatively little of the letter focused on explaining traditional matters of national security. Though the document mentioned Broadcom’s “relationships with third party foreign entities,” it does not go into detail about those ties. The letter does note that descriptions of national security concerns are largely classified. But it makes no mention of Qualcomm’s publicly disclosed partnerships with Huawei, the Chinese rival long considered closely tied to Beijing, on the 5G standard, either. What Cfius appears capable of describing publicly is concern about how Broadcom might manage Qualcomm after a successful takeover. The government panel describes Broadcom’s potential approach as akin to “private equity,” referring to the company’s well-known penchant for cutting costs to help drive profits. To the government, that could pose dangers for Qualcomm’s edge in advancing 5G technology. The chip maker is considered, along with Huawei, to be one of the two leading developers of the superfast wireless standard, and any potential disruption to its business could mean ceding an important advantage to the Chinese, Cfius writes. Cfius’s letter also notes that Qualcomm supplies the United States government with important products, and consults on cybersecurity matters relating to 5G and the internet of things. Any disruption of that work, the panel writes, “could have a detrimental impact on national security.” Another take from a friend of DealBook Here are tweets by Steven Davidoff Solomon, long known as our colleague the Deal Professor: — Michael de la Merced President Trump said that he is thinking of putting tariffs on imported aluminum and steel to protect the domestic metal industries. But in a letter to the White House today, the Aluminum Association said that the move would be a bad idea. From the group’s letter, signed by its C.E.O., Heidi Brock: In the letter, the association says that more narrowly targeted tariffs on Chinese production — which would be more akin to what previous administrations have done — and exemptions for trading partners like Canada and the E.U. would be better. Worth noting:  The association’s website says that it represents both U.S. and foreign suppliers. — Michael de la Merced Policy flyaround • Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin tells lawmakers: “We are not looking to get into trade wars.” (Bloomberg) • Harley-Davidson is bracing for a one-two punch: President Trump’s tariffs on steel and aluminum and threats of retaliation from Europe. (Bloomberg) • Goldman said President Trump “would have been better served by targeted tariffs on steel and aluminum instead of the broad, “draconian” taxes he announced last week.” (CNBC) BlackBerry has filed a lawsuit against the social media giant for patent infringement. BlackBerry argues that Facebook and its Whatsapp and Instagram apps copied technology and features from BlackBerry Messenger, Reuters reports. BlackBerry said in a filing with a Los Angeles federal court. Facebook Deputy General Counsel Paul Grewal told Reuters: “BlackBerry is trying to persuade other companies to pay licensing royalties to use its trove of more than 40,000 global patents on technology including operating systems, networking infrastructure, acoustics, messaging, automotive subsystems, cybersecurity and wireless communications,” Reuters reports. Greg Greeley, an executive at Amazon, is joining Airbnb as president of Homes. He will oversee the company’s core business, including its newly launched Airbnb Plus and Airbnb Collections programs. “Words can’t express how excited I am to join the Airbnb team,” Mr. Greeley said. “I’ve used Airbnb for years, and the chance to work here and expand the positive impact its community is having around the world is a once in a lifetime opportunity.” Mr. Greeley has spent the past 18 years at Amazon. Most recently, he led Amazon Prime. Before that, he oversaw the launch of businesses in India and Brazil for the e-commerce giant and managed its European consumer businesses. Context Airbnb has been reorganizing and building out its executive ranks. Last month, Belinda Johnson, the home-rental company’s chief business affairs and legal officer, was named the chief operating officer, and Laurence Tosi, Airbnb’s chief financial officer, left the company to focus on his investment fund. Every expert that Michael and our colleagues spoke to yesterday acknowledged that the national security panel’s review of Broadcom’s bid for Qualcomm was extraordinary. (One other time Cfius was involved in a contested situation, recalled by Reuters: BHP Billiton’s bid for Rio Tinto in 2008.) Its move shows Washington’s worries about the selling of U.S. companies to foreign counterparts — and its willingness to act. From Alan Rappeport, Cecilia Kang and Chad Bray of the NYT: The deal context: Qualcomm filed for a review of the proxy fight on Jan. 29, before voting on the board contest began. But as of yesterday, Broadcom looked on course to win at least four seats, with a decent chance of six. Big index funds like BlackRock and Vanguard hadn’t voted yet. Bonus explainer: Everything you’d want to know about Cfius. In other foreign deals: The Chicago Stock Exchange’s proposed sale to Chinese investors is dead. Some institutional investors have talked about divesting their shares in gun makers like American Outdoor Brands and Vista Outdoor. (And some, like the Carlyle Group’s David Rubenstein, say they will never invest in the industry.) But, Andrew asks, what if those giants became shareholder activists to change those businesses? From his latest column: The rub: Any decision has to be anchored by financial logic, since BlackRock and others have fiduciary duties to their own investors. But then gun makers are facing costs from boycotts by both consumers and businesses like REI. Elsewhere in guns: A bipartisan bill would require federal officials to notify state law enforcement within 24 hours if someone fails a national background check. And the dating app Bumble has banned gun-related images from user profiles. Though President Trump insisted that the tariffs on all imported aluminum and steel are coming, there are signs that he may soften their impact. • He left open the possibility that Canada and Mexico could be exempt if they signed a new Nafta pact. • Gary Cohn is organizing a meeting with executives from U.S. companies that would be hurt by tariffs, according to Bloomberg. Who has criticized the tariffs: House Speaker Paul Ryan, Goldman Sachs economists and the consulting firm The Trade Partnership. Europe’s plan: It includes retaliatory tariffs on Harley-Davidson motorcycles and Kentucky bourbon and challenges at the World Trade Organization. (Those moves may also violate W.T.O. rules.) As Jean-Claude Juncker of the European Commission said on Friday, “It’s actually a stupid process that we must to do this, but we have to.” Elsewhere on tariffs: Why economists don’t hate the trade deficit. • Corporations could end up paying more in state taxes because of the federal tax overhaul. (WSJ) • Washington State is getting its own net neutrality rules. (NYT) • The Trump administration urged the Supreme Court to expand states’ authority to collect sales tax on internet purchases. (WSJ) • The bank that processed a $130,000 payment from President Trump’s personal lawyer to an adult-film actress flagged the transaction to the Treasury Department as suspicious, an unnamed source says. (WSJ) • A Belarusian escort with close ties to the Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska says she has evidence relevant to the Russia investigation. (NYT) • The Trump name has been pried off its only hotel in Latin America, but the Trump Organization denies losing control of the property. (NYT) • Sam Nunberg, a onetime Trump campaign aide, told many news outlets yesterday that he didn’t want to appear before a grand jury, among other things. (NYT) The Volcker Rule campaign: The Fed is working on “material changes” to the rule, which was meant to reduce banks’ ability to make risky and speculative trades, according to our colleague Matthew Goldstein. Among the proponents is Randal Quarles, the Fed’s vice chair for supervision. Peter Eavis notes one group grateful for the Volcker Rule: investors in banks. The foreign bank campaign: Peter Eavis dived into how Deutsche Bank and others are trying to take advantage of a bill that would relax regulations for regional banks. In short: banks with less than $250 billion in assets would enjoy more relaxed rules, and foreign banks — which oversee less than $250 billion in assets in the U.S. — want in. Elsewhere in regulations: Don’t expect more disclosure under the S.E.C.’s new cybersecurity rules, according to White Collar Watch. Michael broke the news yesterday that a nine-year-old reviews site, The Infatuation, had bought Zagat — the “iconic” and quote-mark-happy restaurant guide built around contributions from readers — from Google. What is The Infatuation? It was founded by two former music executives and grew by embracing technology: It created the “#EEEEEATS” branded hashtag on Instagram and a texting-based restaurant recommendation service. The big question: Can even a company that rose to fame with Instagram hashtags keep Zagat relevant amid a slew of younger digital competitors? • Nordstrom rejected its founding family’s latest takeover bid, valued at $8.4 billion. (NYT) • Continental Grain plans to raise its stake in Bunge and push the agriculture-commodity trader to sell itself, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg) • Elliott Management is building a stake in Telecom Italia to counter the company’s biggest investor, Vivendi, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg) • The F.T.C. sued to block J.M. Smucker’s acquisition of Wesson from ConAgra. (WSJ) • The European cardboard box maker Smurfit Kappa has rejected a takeover offer by International Paper. (FT) • U.K. lawmakers called on the British government to block Melrose’s hostile takeover bid for GKN. (FT) • The private equity owners of the baseball cards maker Topps are weighing a sale, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg) • How the $15.3 billion sale of XL Group to Axa of France got done. (Bloomberg) Grocery stores, online video and health care aren’t enough. The online giant is talking to big banks like JPMorgan Chase and Capital One Financial about creating checking accounts for customers, unnamed sources told the WSJ. What’s in it for Amazon: access to younger customers and those without bank accounts; lower fees to financial firms; and, of course, more customer data. (Amazon already runs a credit operation for customers in India, where it’s battling powerful local rivals.) What’s in it for the banks: keeping a rival close and being tied to a company that millennials love. The tech flyaround • Now its legal fight with Waymo is over, Uber wants to partner with its erstwhile foe once more, unnamed sources say. Pennsylvania’s attorney general sued Uber for violating the state’s data breach notification law. And Uber booked more than half the seats available for the London premiere of “Brilliant Jerks,” a play inspired by the company. • Glass Lewis recommended that Tesla shareholders reject a plan to award Elon Musk $2.6 billion in equity. (Bloomberg) • Austrian banks should treat virtual currency transactions as suspicious until shown otherwise, the country’s financial markets regulator says. (Bloomberg) • Meet Harmeet Dhillon, the lawyer trying to make Silicon Valley a safe space for conservatives. (Bloomberg) • The U.N. made Michael Bloomberg a special envoy for climate action. (NYT) • Disney named James Pitaro, the chairman of its consumer products and interactive division, as the next president of ESPN. (NYT) • Noah Beck, previously a partner at Schulte Roth &amp; Zabel, has joined Weil, Gotshal &amp; Manges as a partner in its tax practice. (Weil) • Kleiner Perkins has hired Ilya Fushman from Index Ventures as a general partner and managing member. (KPCB) • Inge Thulin will step down as C.E.O. of 3M in the summer and become executive chairman. He will be replaced by the chief operating officer, Michael Roman. (WSJ) • Luc Jobin, the C.E.O. of Canadian National Railway, has left abruptly, leaving operational challenges. (WSJ) • Matthew Henick, the former head of BuzzFeed Studios, has joined Facebook as head of content planning and strategy. (TechCrunch) • Martin Shkreli’s assets (including that Wu-Tang Clan album) can be seized if he doesn’t come up with the $7.36 million he owes the government, a judge has ruled. (NYT) • Capitolis, which provides capital markets technology, has raised $29 million from investors like Index Ventures and Sequoia Capital. (Business Wire) • The head of Yale’s $27 billion endowment, David Swensen, has called the editor in chief of the student newspaper there a “coward” over its coverage of the fund and asked if she understood “simple English.” (Bloomberg) • More than half of C.I.O.s at the world’s top companies by revenue say they expect to leave within the next three years, according to a Korn Ferry International report. (WSJ) • Puerto Rico remains far from being back in business: Some parts of the island are still in the dark. (NYT) • Meet the judge handling over 400 federal lawsuits against central figures in the national opioid tragedy, including makers, distributors and retailers of prescription painkillers. (NYT) • The proportion of women in senior roles at central banks fell last year, to 19 percent from 31 percent. (Bloomberg) • Diversity and inclusion were buzzwords at Davos, but not at the SuperReturn International conference in Berlin, where 13 percent of the speakers were women. (Bloomberg) • Microsoft’s new diversity chief has settled with IBM, which had sued her over a noncompete agreement, and will start in July. (Axios) We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.