  Good Monday. Here’s what we’re watching: • What might happen to Amazon’s bottom line if it paid its workers more? • Sears shares jumped after ESL called on the Sears to sell the Kenmore brand. • Walmart is said to be close to gaining a majority stake in Flipkart. • Mike Bloomberg opened his wallet for climate change. • Learn more about “transshipping,” one of President Trump’s big trade bugbears. Want this in your inbox each morning? Sign up here. Amazon surprised some last week when it disclosed in a filing that the median compensation of its employees was $28,466. The expectation in some quarters was that Amazon might have had a higher pay number, in part because it is a fast-growing, cutting-edge company. But Amazon’s revenue is dominated by its retail operations, a business that typically has lower wages. What might happen to Amazon’s bottom line if it paid its workers more? This question may become more pressing if labor shortages start to force companies to up their pay to attract and retain employees. Amazon does not disclose its total compensation expense, so it’s not possible for outsiders to accurately compute what would happen to profits if it raised pay. But the disclosure of median pay provides a little insight. Under S.E.C. rules, public companies must now disclose the median pay figure for all their employees. In annual filings, that number is then compared with the pay of the chief executive. In Amazon’s case, the $1,681,840 that Jeff Bezos earned in 2017 was 59 times that of the median employee, a lower ratio than exists at other large public companies. One way to get a rough proxy for a company’s overall compensation expense is to multiply its median pay number by its total number of employees. For Amazon, that would produce a purely hypothetical compensation expense of $16.1 billion (566,000 employees times $28,466.) Increasing Amazon’s median pay number by 10 percent would bump the $28,466 up to $31,313, and the putative compensation expense would rise to $17.7 billion. Such an increase would have cut Amazon’s $3.8 billion of pretax income in 2017 by 42 percent to $2.2 billion. A 20 percent raise would have slashed those earnings by 85 percent. How does Amazon stack up against Walmart? The C.E.O. of Walmart, Doug McMillion, made $22.8 million in the company’s latest fiscal year. That sum was 1,188 times as large as the median employee’s pay of $19,177 (a number that excludes some foreign employees.) At Walmart, increasing the hypothetical compensation expense would have less of an impact on earnings. A 10 percent increase would reduce Walmart’s latest annual pretax profits by 28 percent, while a 20 percent pay increase would lower profits by 56 percent. There are two ways to view such numbers. One is that retail is a cutthroat business and wages cannot rise by much if a company is going to be healthily profitable. The other is that large retailers have used their heft to lower as many of their costs as possible, including wages. — Peter Eavis Strong advertising sales during the first quarter helped Google-parent Alphabet beat analysts expectations. The company’s bottom line also received a lift from a change in accounting for its investments in startups. • Net profit jumped 73% to $9.4 billion in the first quarter, up from $5.4 billion a year ago. • Earnings per share came in at $13.33 per share, beating analyst estimates of $9.28 per share. • The company reported a $3 billion, or about $3.40 a share, gain on equity securities in the first quarter. • Sales rose to $31.1 billion, beating the consensus estimate of $30.3 billion. • Traffic costs hit $6.3 billion, up 35% from a year earlier. Shares of Alphabet bounced around after hours. The stock rose as much as 2.2 percent but is now down slightly. Critics’ corner Robert Cryan of Breakingviews writes: Shares of Sears Holding are up about 4 percent in recent trading on Mr. Lampert’s latest attempt to save the troubled retailer. In a letter to the Sears board, Mr. Lampert, whose ESL Investments hedge fund owns a controlling stake in the company, said ESL would also be willing to buy the retailer’s home-services and its appliance-parts units. Mr. Lampert offered to pay Sears $500 million for the home-services and appliance-parts units, but did not mention a price for the Kenmore brand or the real estate. He noted that the company had been trying to sell the assets for nearly two years, but had failed to find other buyers. Mr. Lampert is Sears’s chief executive. Any deal involving Sears and Mr. Lampert is complicated by his dual roles running both the retailer and the hedge fund, which is also a major Sears lender. Mr. Lampert said in his letter that he would recuse himself from any board discussions about his proposal. Any deal would need to be approved by a majority of Sears shareholders not affiliated with ESL, the letter said. Sears has already sold some assets, closed hundreds of stores and laid off workers across the country as offset falling sales. The company sold its Craftsman tool brand to Stanley Black &amp; Decker for $775 million last year. — Michael Corkery The European Commission said Monday that it has opened an in-depth investigation into Apple’s acquisition of Shazam, the maker of an app that identifies songs after listening to just a few seconds of them. Margrethe Vestager, the European Union’s competition commissioner, said in a statement: The European Commission is concerned that Shazam’s strong position in music recognition would enable Apple to “obtain access to commercially sensitive data about customers of its competitors.” The European Commission has until Sept. 4 to finish its investigation. Apple reached a deal to buy Shazam for roughly $400 million in December. The U.S. retail giant is reportedly close to buying a majority stake in Flipkart, the top e-commerce company in India, at a $20 billion valuation, according to Bloomberg. Existing investors like Tiger Global Management and SoftBank have agreed to sell substantial portions of their shares, giving Walmart a stake of 60 percent to 80 percent. Why it’s important: Both Walmart and Amazon have hungrily watched India, where the e-commerce market trails only the U.S. and China in terms of size but where foreign retailers have struggled. But don’t expect Amazon, Flipkart’s biggest rival, to give up. Move over, Spotify: Tencent Music reportedly plans to interview potential underwriters for a U.S. I.P.O., with a valuation exceeding $25 billion, according to WSJ. (It could also be the latest instance of a spinoff helping its Chinese parent’s financial fortunes.) Elsewhere in deals: Elliott Management wants Hyundai to reorganize its divisions and pay out more dividends. HNA cut its stake in Deutsche Bank amid its downsizing. How China is buying into Europe. Deutsche Telekom plans to fight Vodafone’s plan to buy Liberty Media’s German and Eastern Europe cable division. The parent company of Poker Stars agreed to buy Sky Betting &amp; Gaming for $4.7 billion to get a foothold in Europe. Fresenius walked away from its $4.3 billion deal for Akorn, a maker of cancer drugs. Just over a month after cutting a deal with Carl Icahn (an agreement that Mr. Icahn’s frenemy Bill Ackman said was “a deal with the devil”), the consumer brands conglomerate has reached an accord with Starboard Value as well. What’s in the peace agreement: Newell will name three new directors. Two — Gerardo Lopez, the C.E.O. of Extended Stay America, and Robert Steele, a former senior executive at Procter &amp; Gamble — are independent. The third, Bridget Ryan Berman, a former C.E.O. of `Armany and executive at Google and Victoria’s Secret, was agreed upon by Starboard and Mr. Icahn. How it came together: In a joint news release, Mr. Icahn said that Newell asked him to parley with Starboard. Key to reaching a truce was Mr. Icahn giving up two seats that he had taken on Newell’s board. What the parties said about the deal • Michael Polk, Newell’s C.E.O.: “This agreement will enable the Company to now focus exclusively on the execution of our transformation plans and our efforts to strengthen our financial and operational performance.” • Mr. Icahn: “I am pleased that we were able to facilitate peace between the company and Starboard. Given that the company has so many more pressing priorities, this is clearly the best outcome for all shareholders.” • Jeff Smith, Starboard’s C.E.O.: “We are confident this newly reconstituted board will bring a refreshed sense of urgency, oversight, and accountability to Newell.” The market reaction: Shares in Newell were up over 3 percent in premarket trading on Monday. — Michael de la Merced Even after the Trump administration withdrew from the Paris climate accord, Mr. Bloomberg insisted that the U.S. keep up its financial obligations to the U.N. body overseeing the pact — using $4.5 million of his own money. “I’m going to send them a check for the monies that America had promised to the organization as though they got it from the federal government,” Mr. Bloomberg told CBS’s “Face the Nation.” The former N.Y.C. mayor has shown he has no problem speaking out on his personal causes, even if they’re in opposition to President Trump’s policies. And he’s willing to put his own money to work as well. What Mr. Bloomberg isn’t doing: Running for president — at the moment. “I think I can as a private citizen help in some of those things and that’s what I want to do with my life,” he said. “If you talk China, I’ve watched where the reporters have been writing 2 percent of our steel comes from China. Well, that’s not right,” President Trump said last month, before criticizing transshipping. The practice, which disguises the origins of metals and other imports, is a reason behind the U.S.’s fight with China — and  the E.U., South Korea and Canada have moved to crack down on illicit uses of the maneuver. (Certain instances can be legal.) Meanwhile, Steven Mnuchin is weighing a trip to Beijing, in the hopes that talks could avoid a full-blown trade war. Elsewhere in trade: The E.U. and Mexico forged their own pact on Saturday, sending a message to Washington. And a trade war  could hurt Google’s Android. • An NYT investigation into Scott Pruitt’s career before the E.P.A. found close ties to lobbyists — and an instance of a house purchase involving a lobbyist, a shell company and a questionable sale price. (NYT) • Mike Pence’s older brother, Greg, is running for Congress — and his stewardship of a local gas station operator that went bankrupt is taking fire. (NYT) • The Republican tax cuts sliced $18 billion off the book value of 100 big U.S. public companies — but that math may change as a lower tax rate takes hold. (FT) • Will Kellyanne Conway finally take a role in the White House communications department? (Axios) • Has the office of the presidency become too big to manage? (The Atlantic) Mike Schroepfer, the company’s chief technology officer, will appear on Thursday before the British government committee investigating fake news and social media following the Cambridge Analytica scandal. (No Mark Zuckerberg this time.) Testifying tomorrow before that committee will be Aleksandr Kogan, the academic who passed user data to Cambridge Analytica. Mr. Kogan apologized for his role, but said he was considering suing Facebook for suggesting that he had acted unethically. (The star witness last week — albeit in absentia — was the man who set up Cambridge Analytica’s parent company decades ago.) Elsewhere in Facebook: How the newsfeed played a central role in inciting violence in Sri Lanka. A deeper look at how much influence Campbell Brown, the former journalist who now leads news partnerships at the company, actually has. For years, the e-commerce giant has taken arrows from all corners, from labor unions to think tanks to competitors. Now President Trump has joined the fray, but not everyone is comfortable being on the same side. The issue: Mr. Trump’s attacks appear rooted in personal animus, clouding what others feel are legitimate criticisms. Matt Stoller of the Open Markets Institute told the NYT, “What he’s doing is a threat to democracy, but so is Amazon.” Elsewhere in Amazon news: The average Amazon employee is in a warehouse, not a data lab, and earns a median annual salary of $28,446. Many Americans believe the e-commerce titan has the most positive social impact of any big tech company, according to a new survey. (Another survey found that more than half of Americans want more regulations of tech companies.) It’s the same issue that dogged Craigslist, PayPal and Venmo early on: fraud. Now Zelle, a payment service used by the likes of Bank of America and Chase, is grappling with what some analysts told the NYT is an alarming series of incidents. “I know of one bank that was experiencing a 90 percent fraud rate on Zelle transactions, which is insane,” said Genevieve Gimbert, a partner in PwC’s financial crimes unit. The problem: Customers often aren’t notified when money is transferred; customers are subjected to phishing attacks that drain money from their accounts; buyers have no protections if sellers don’t provide paid-for goods. Why it matters: Banks want their share of digital payments, and 18 so far have signed up with Zelle. Elsewhere in finance: UBS’s strong first-quarter earnings were overshadowed by the bank’s wealth-management unit missing estimates. • Gary Gensler has gone from Goldman Sachs trader to financial regulator under President Barack Obama to lecturer at M.I.T., where he plans to extol cryptocurrencies’ virtues and warn of their regulatory problems. (NYT) • Meet the kolion, a Russian cryptocurrency that is gaining favor in rural areas — and being watched warily by Moscow. (WSJ) • NewsGuard, a service that uses trained journalists to rate thousands of news and information sites, is starting a hotline for reporting fake news sites. (Axios) • Major American consumer brands said that Alibaba retaliated when they refused exclusive partnerships with the company. The Chinese e-commerce company has struck deals to get its digital assistant into Audi, Volvo and Mercedes-Benz cars in China. • Google has been criticized for its responses to upcoming European data rules. (FT) • Electric scooters are causing havoc in San Francisco and L.A. The C.E.O. of one big maker, Bird Rides, says ¯\_(ツ)_/¯. (NYT) • Australia’s competition regulator said it would examine contracts between Uber and the restaurants that use Uber Eats. (Reuters) • Flickr has a new owner: Yahoo unexpectedly sold the picture-sharing site to SmugMug. (Recode) • How Martin Sorrell’s departure from WPP has set off an intense debate about the future of the ad industry. (NYT) • Matthew Barzun, a former U.S. ambassador to Britain, will lead the new British media outlet set up by James Harding, the former head of BBC News. (BuzzFeed) • Volkswagen is trying to remake its company culture. It’s not going so well. (NYT) • Brooks Brothers is celebrating its 200th anniversary with a return to tradition. (NYT) • No fewer than nine groups have come together to work on a “people’s vote” on whatever deal the British government negotiates with the E.U. (NYT) We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.