 Jeffrey Tambor is officially no longer part of the “Transparent” cast. Amazon Studios’ decision to move on without Mr. Tambor, the Emmy-winning star of one of its most highly regarded series, followed months of speculation about whether he would return to the show after he was accused of sexual harassment last fall. Mr. Tambor, 73, was accused of inappropriate workplace behavior by a fellow “Transparent” cast member, Trace Lysette, and a former personal assistant, Van Barnes. In November, Mr. Tambor said that he did not see how he could return to the series, citing what he described as the “politicized atmosphere” on the set after he had been publicly accused. “This is no longer the job I signed up for,” he said at the time. The next month, however, Mr. Tambor told The New York Times through his publicist that “no final decision for next year has been made, either by Jeffrey or by Amazon.” On Thursday, Amazon Studios and the creator of “Transparent” made it clear that he would not be back. “I have great respect and admiration for Van Barnes and Trace Lysette, whose courage in speaking out about their experience on ‘Transparent’ is an example of the leadership this moment in our culture requires,” said the series’ creator, Jill Soloway. “We are grateful to the many trans people who have supported our vision for ‘Transparent’ since its inception and remain heartbroken about the pain and mistrust their experience has generated in our community.” An email seeking comment from representatives of Mr. Tambor was not immediately returned. How “Transparent” proceeds for its fifth season without its star — an actor who won two Emmys in the role of Maura Pfefferman (formerly Mort Pfefferman) — is an open question that another popular web series has already had to answer. The production team for “House of Cards” fired its star, Kevin Spacey, after he was accused of inappropriate sexual behavior, and Netflix will turn to Robin Wright to carry its final, shortened season. Ms. Wright will get an assist when Diane Lane and Greg Kinnear join the cast. The drama over “Transparent” has come at a moment when Amazon is effectively hitting the reset button on its programming. Its head of entertainment, Roy Price, was let go after a sexual harassment allegation in October and was replaced last week by the NBC executive Jennifer Salke. The streaming service is also contending with big-spending rivals in Apple, which is hurriedly buying up new projects, and Netflix, which signed the producer Ryan Murphy to a $300 million deal this week. Mr. Tambor is a veteran actor whose early work included appearances on “Kojak,” “Starsky and Hutch” and “Taxi” in the 1970s. He later played a recurring character on “Hill Street Blues” and went on to be a staple of the critically acclaimed series “The Larry Sanders Show” and “Arrested Development.”