 President Trump met Thursday with several Republican lawmakers, video game industry representatives and others — no scientists, though — to discuss the role video games play in sparking real-world violence. The summit — called by Mr. Trump after reports that the gunman who killed 17 people in Parkland, Fla., last month had played violent games — was far from the first where concerned politicians raised the alarm over pixelated violence. It is a subject that has provided government officials from both sides of the aisle a convenient target for criticism since the 1970s. The calls to arms reached a climax in late 1993, as outrage flared over nonstop beheadings and spurting blood in the popular Mortal Kombat game. Senator Joe Lieberman, then a Democrat of Connecticut, helped lead hearings on Capitol Hill that put video game executives under the spotlight. The hearings eventually led to a video game ratings system that continues to this day. Years later, the vast majority of researchers say questions over a possible link between video game violence and violence such as mass shootings have long been answered: There isn’t a connection between them. “If we’re talking about violence, then the evidence is very clear that there is no causal link to violent video games,” said Christopher J. Ferguson, a psychology professor at Stetson University in Florida. “That’s pretty established at this point.” Here is a look at the events that led to the hearings, and their aftermath. Violent video games began drawing the attention of the authorities shortly after they started showing up in arcades. In the 1970s, a game called Death Race, which required players to simulate hit-and-run killings from behind the wheel, was described by the National Safety Council as “sick, sick, sick.” In the 1980s, Dr. C. Everett Koop, the United States surgeon general, voiced concerns  that video games might be detrimental to young people, who he said could become addicted to them “body and soul.” But by the early 1990s, concern had morphed into panic. Rhetoric about an epidemic of violence ran rampant, fueled by fears of teenage gangs and murderers. On Dec. 7, 1993, a gunman killed six people on a crowded Long Island Rail Road train during rush hour. Not long before, the intensely popular and extremely bloody arcade game Mortal Kombat had become available for home gaming systems. Players squared off against opponents in one-on-one fights; the victor could employ a character-specific “fatality” that allowed the winning avatar to tear out the loser’s heart or execute some other coup de grâce. Mortal Kombat’s first iteration featured weapons, but no firearms. The brutal game became a favorite target for critics of violence marketed to children, along with a more obscure game called Night Trap, whose premise involved a surveillance agent protecting teenage girls from blood-craving monsters. Mr. Lieberman led the charge in denouncing such games as desensitizing young players. The same month as the Long Island train massacre, he spearheaded a series of congressional hearings into the influence of video games on real-world violence. “We’re talking about video games that glorify violence and teach children to enjoy inflicting the most gruesome forms of cruelty imaginable,” he said at a news conference that December. Amid the growing concern, MTV ran a special called “Generation Under the Gun,” in which teenagers discussed their relationships with firearms. Toys “R” Us vowed to stop selling Night Trap. The gaming industry formed its first trade group, which is now known as the Entertainment Software Association. To head off lawmakers’ threats to form a federal commission to oversee video games, the organization quickly created a regulatory body known as the Entertainment Software Ratings Board. The board’s rating system, largely modeled after the one used by the movie industry, assigned letter grades to video games based on  their content, with the most violent games reserved for players 17 or older. The industry promised the new system would be in place in time for the 1994 holiday buying season. But politicians and lobbyists from both sides of the aisle would continue to point to video games as a possible culprit in mass shootings. The two teenage gunmen who killed 12 fellow students and a teacher at Columbine High School in 1999 were said to have played the first-person shooter game Doom, which led Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, to accuse Hollywood and computerized games as having “undermined the core values of civility.” A few months after the shooting, President Bill Clinton asked the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission to investigate how violent media, including video games, was being marketed to children. Regulatory efforts were stymied in 2011, when the Supreme Court blocked a California law that sought to ban the sale of violent video games to young people. But in the aftermath of the deadly shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School the next year, President Barack Obama asked Congress for funds to research the effects of violence in video games. Nearly 25 years have passed since the 1993 hearings, and video games are vastly more realistic and social, with gamers capable of participating in 100-person “Battle Royale”-style death matches. The ratings system is generally considered to have been effective in keeping children from directly acquiring violent games, although many still find ways to get hold of them. And the prospect of legislative action seems to have faded. “Now, there are very few legislators under 60 who don’t have kids who play video games or who don’t play themselves,” said Michael Pachter, a video games analyst with Wedbush Securities. “It’s just a different society now.”