 Disney is hovering like the Death Star over the media dreams of European telecom companies. The likes of BT are investing in sports and other content to sell to their customers. But with the rival pay-TV group Sky soon to be owned by the maker of the “Star Wars” movies, some may be forced into retreat. The Walt Disney Company struck a $52.4 billion all-stock deal on Thursday for most of the assets belonging to 21st Century Fox, including a 39 percent stake in Sky. Assuming Fox gets clearance from regulators in Britain next year to buy out the remaining shareholders, Disney would end up owning the whole group. Sky is already a big fish in a small European media pond. It serves almost 23 million households across Britain, Ireland, Germany, Austria and Italy. Most of its competitors, such as RTL and Mediaset, are predominantly national players. Disney should tip the scales even further in Sky’s favor. Sky would theoretically have more financial heft: Disney’s revenue this year should be greater than Sky, RTL, Mediaset, ITV, ProSiebenSat.1 and Vivendi combined, according to Eikon estimates. That could allow Sky to expand into new markets and bid more for sports rights and other content. And Sky could also have preferential access to a large stable of content including films like the “Star Wars” and Marvel franchises. A stronger Sky would be most damaging for its pay-TV competitors, but the repercussions may also be felt by telecom groups. Some have invested in content to cross-sell television with mobile services, in a bid to squeeze more out of customers. BT this year outbid Sky with a 1.2 billion pound offer for rights to Europe’s Champions League soccer tournament. In Italy, Telecom Italia is setting up a content joint venture with Canal Plus, Vivendi’s pay-TV arm. The argument for these media forays was already sketchy: A report by Credit Suisse analysts concluded that European telecom content investments up to April 2017 had lost money. According to a recent Bernstein analysis, the annual cost of sports rights will be greater for BT this year than the revenue they generate. If Disney’s ownership of Sky effectively deepens the British group’s pockets, the telecom content rebellion may come to an end.