 Trevor Edwards, a top Nike executive who was seen as a potential successor to the chief executive, is stepping down, the company said on Thursday. On the same day, the company sent a memo to employees disclosing internal complaints about workplace behavior, Greg Rossiter, a spokesman, confirmed. “There has been conduct inconsistent with Nike’s core values and against our code of conduct,” he said. “There have been no direct allegations of misconduct against Trevor.” The company did not specify why Mr. Edwards was leaving. His decision to resign was finalized this week, Mr. Rossiter said. Nike does not disclose details of individual employment actions, said Mr. Rossiter, who would not say how many complaints the company had received, the nature of the complaints or when the first was received. Nike managers have spoken to “a cross-section of employees” about the issue, he said. The memo, which was written by Mark Parker, the chief executive, is also vague, according to excerpts published by the magazine Fast Company. “Over the past few weeks, we’ve become aware of reports of behavior occurring within our organization that do not reflect our core values of inclusivity, respect and empowerment at a time when we are accelerating our transition to the next stage of growth and advancing our culture,” Mr. Parker wrote. “This disturbs and saddens me.” Nike, based in Beaverton, Ore., has an alert line for employees to call in complaints and recently added an additional telephone hotline and email inbox for concerns, Mr. Rossiter said. The company will also try to diversify its management ranks, he said. As of the 2015 fiscal year, 41 percent of Nike managers were women, according a report from the company. Nearly half of its employees were white. “We believe we need to accelerate our plans to have more women and minorities in leadership positions,” Mr. Rossiter said. In both the memo and the company’s public announcement, Mr. Parker said Mr. Edwards was relinquishing his position as Nike’s brand president and would retire in August. Mr. Edwards, who has been with Nike since he joined as a regional marketing manager in 1992, will serve as an adviser to Mr. Parker until then. Mr. Rossiter declined to elaborate on Mr. Edwards’s duties and pay as an adviser. Mr. Edwards, who was known for his work linking athletics with technology and raising the brand’s profile using social media, earned nearly $5 million in total compensation in the 2017 fiscal year, according to Nike’s regulatory filings. Mr. Parker, who has held his position for more than a decade, will remain in the chief executive role past 2020, the company said. “We are fortunate to have a strong management team in place who is well suited to drive our next stage of growth and to steward and evolve our culture in the future,” Mr. Parker said in the public statement, thanking Mr. Edwards for his work. In the internal memo, which was first reported by The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Parker wrote that he was reorganizing his leadership team to “allow for closer management and a sharper focus on our culture.” As part of the management shake-up, Mr. Parker promoted Elliott Hill, the former president of Nike Geographies, to a newly created position, president of the consumer and marketplace division. Mr. Hill joined the company in 1988.