 President Trump’s pick to lead the Federal Reserve has put his mastery of the central banking arts on display. Jerome Powell breezed through his Senate confirmation hearing on Tuesday with Zen-like confidence. He dodged the debate on tax overhaul, kept comments about rate increases comments predictable, backed Fed independence and defended its review of bank rules. Mr. Powell’s testimony offered something for each side of the political aisle. For Democrats concerned about potential Trump administration interference in the Fed, Mr. Powell said the central bank should not take political outcomes into consideration and added that the Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, would not be involved in the Fed’s decisions. For Republicans who want to roll back Dodd-Frank rules, Mr. Powell said he was committed to tailoring regulations to fit the risks of a bank and reducing oversight for smaller firms. He also avoided political pitfalls. Democrats repeatedly tried to force him to make negative comments about the Republican tax cut plan, which would add about $1.5 trillion to the deficit over 10 years. Mr. Powell said he was generally concerned about the country’s growing debt burden, but he had no opinion about the tax proposal and said it was not the Fed’s job to score fiscal policy. Instead, Mr. Powell made comments about Fed policy that would surprise no one. He said the case was “coming together” for a rate increase at the central bank’s next meeting in December, as the Fed had signaled in November. He also said he supported the current pace of reducing the Fed’s $4.5 trillion balance sheet and repeated his expectation it would eventually settle at $2.5 trillion to $3 trillion as it moved away from asset purchases. Mr. Trump’s decision to not reappoint the incumbent Fed chairwoman, Janet L. Yellen, to a second term was unusual. But apart from his more aggressive stance on deregulation, Mr. Powell’s views fall in line with his assumptive predecessor. As a result, he avoided making political waves and probably faces an easy Senate confirmation. The prospect of post-Yellen stability from the Fed will please the markets.