 Chipotle Mexican Grill said on Wednesday that it was looking for a new leader “with demonstrated turnaround expertise” to replace Steve Ells, the current chief executive and founder of the fast casual chain. Mr. Ells, who started the company in Denver in 1993 and now oversees more than 2,350 restaurants, will become executive chairman once his successor is found. Montgomery F. Moran stepped down as co-chief executive of Chipotle late last year after several food safety failures at the chain, which caused an exodus of customers and a pummeling on Wall Street. “While we are continuing to make progress, it is clear that we need to move faster to make improvements,” Mr. Ells said in a statement. “Simply put, we need to execute better to ensure our future success.” Chipotle’s stock closed up 5.7 percent, at $301.99, on Wednesday after tumbling 20 percent this year. In the summer of 2015, shares were priced above $700 each. Around the same time, Chipotle began dealing with the first in a long series of scandals. Food contaminated with E. coli sickened customers around the United States. Dozens of people were treated for salmonella after eating at a Chipotle in Minnesota. The company was subpoenaed in a criminal inquiry related to a norovirus outbreak in California in 2015, and then again after another norovirus outbreak in Virginia this summer. Mark Crumpacker, the executive guiding Chipotle past the food safety uproar, was charged with drug possession last year and placed on administrative leave. He was reinstated several months later. The company disclosed a data breach this spring that resulted in hackers stealing customer data. A video released this summer, which showed multiple rodents in a Chipotle restaurant in Dallas, went viral. Hurricanes Harvey and Irma also slammed the company, which had 425 restaurants directly in the path of the storms. Mr. Ells himself has drawn investor scrutiny over his compensation. He received nearly $15.7 million in total compensation last year, a slight raise from 2015 but a significant shave from the year before, when he earned $28.9 million. Mr. Moran, a school friend of Mr. Ells, took home similar amounts. Mr. Ells is part of the search committee formed to find his replacement. Others on the committee include directors of the company: Robin Hickenlooper, the wife of Governor John Hickenlooper of Colorado, and Ali Namvar, a partner at Pershing Square Capital Management. Ms. Hickenlooper and Mr. Namvar were added to the Chipotle board late last year after pressure from William A. Ackman, an activist investor and founder of Pershing Square, which is Chipotle’s largest investor. Analysts said Chipotle was likely to seek a chief executive with more operational savvy than Mr. Ells could provide, especially in a difficult competitive environment for restaurants. “We’re all very cautious on these guys,” Nick Setyan, an analyst with Wedbush Securities, said of the company. “Steve Ells was able to position Chipotle to be a trailblazer in its category, but he kept reaching into that same bag of historical experience and philosophy when ultimately that’s not what’s needed now.”