  Good Tuesday. Here’s what we’re watching: • Spotify’s shares opened at $165.90. • If the markets fall again, we have some possible explanations. • Should Facebook offer “Why Me?” buttons? • Disney has offered to buy Sky News to help Fox’s Sky bid. Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here. Spotify is a loss-making company that might not report a profit until next decade, but that didn’t stop investors from valuing the company at $30 billion when it debuted Tuesday on the United States stock market. Spotify is an impressive company. Its loyal, paying customer base is enormous and is expected to keep growing. Also, Spotify has so far held its own in the face of competition from Apple, Amazon and Google, all of which want to win new subscribers to their music streaming services. But there is an important reason that Wall Street is flocking to Spotify: It is doing a great job at getting record companies to roll over. Spotify’s main cost is what it pays record companies for the music it streams to its customers. As Spotify has grown, that expense has fallen as a share of its total revenue, which shows that Spotify is negotiating increasingly advantageous deals with record companies. That has bolstered Spotify’s gross profit margin, which measures how much money a company keeps after paying out the costs directly related to generating its revenue. Last year, that margin was 21 percent of revenue at Spotify, well up from 14 percent in 2016. Crucially, though, Spotify has said it expects its gross margin to expand to as much as 35 percent over the longer term. In other words, as Spotify’s spending on music grows, so will its leverage over record companies. And it may well achieve its gross margin target. After all, Netflix, which occupies a similar position in the market for streaming video, has a gross margin of 35 percent. But Spotify’s main rivals could complicate things. What if Amazon offered record companies better terms than Spotify? That would reduce Spotify’s bargaining power, making it harder to deliver wider gross margins investors are expecting. And Amazon, along with Apple and Google, has far deeper pockets to slog it out over the long term. — Peter Eavis Spotify’s unusual path to the public markets was a success. On its first day of trading on the New York Stock Exchange, the music streaming service finished with a valuation of $26.5 billion. Spotify’s shares opened at $165.90 before closing at $149.01. That’s well above the high of $132.50 that its shares changed hands at in private transactions this year. It’s also well above the $137.50 the WSJ reported its private shares were trading at during the past week. Spotify had eschewed a typical initial public offering in favor of a direct listing. That meant there was no “deal price” for investors to reference on the first day of trading and no underwriters acting as stabilizing agents if the stock began to plunge. Despite all that, Spotify’s valuation at the close on Tuesday ranks among the highest for a tech company debuting on an American exchange. Here’s a look at the tech companies with the 10 biggest market capitalizations after their first day of trading, courtesy of Dealogic: Alibaba — $233.9 billion Facebook — $81.7 billion Palm — $53.3 billion Infineon Technologies — $47.9 billion JD.com — $28.9 billion Snap — $28.9 billion Google — $27.2 billion Spotify — $26.5 billion Twitter — $24.9 billion Agilent — $20.1 billion Shares of the electric carmaker are up 3.3 percent Tuesday after the company released production data Tuesday that showed progress in producing its mass-market Model 3. Tesla said: • It built 2,020 Model 3s in the past seven days. That fell short of its goal of 2,500 by the end of the quarter. • Tesla produced 9,766 Model 3s during the quarter. • In total, Tesla produced 35,000 cars in the first quarter. • It has delivered 8,800 Model 3s during the first quarter, below the 8,800 analysts expected according to Bloomberg. • In all, Tesla delivered a record 29,980 vehicles during the quarter. • The company said it expects Model 3 weekly production to reach 5,000 by the end of the second quarter. • The combined deliveries of the Model X and Model S came to 21,800 cars, the lowest total in several quarters. Context Tesla’s stock and bond prices have plunged amid concerns about how much cash the company is using as it struggles to speed up assembly and sales of the Model 3. With a starting price of $35,000, the car is supposed to be more affordable than Tesla’s other cars. The company has been counting on a quick expansion of its Model 3 business to increase revenue. The president reiterated his claim that Amazon is “costing the United States Postal Service massive amounts of money” in a post to Twitter on Tuesday morning. Shares are essentially flat on the day. The accusation is the latest in a string of critical tweets that began Thursday about the e-commerce giant. As The Associated Press pointed out over the weekend, Mr. Trump is misrepresenting Amazon’s record with the United States Postal Service. Could Mr. Tump’s criticism lead to action against Amazon? Gabriel Sherman over at Vanity Fair reports on a few of the ideas being tossed around, including pushing for the Postal Service to renegotiate its contract with Amazon and encouraging “attorneys general in red states to open investigations into Amazon’s business practices.” Wall Street analysts are largely advising investors to ignore the noise. But even if changes were made to sales tax collection, that may end up benefiting Amazon. Michael Olson, an analyst at Piper Jaffray, writes: Elliott Management has acquired a $1 billion stake in Hyundai Motors, Kia Motors and Hyundai Mobis. Last month, Hyundai simplified its ownership structure. The aim was to resolve the group’s circular shareholdings, which critics have long said give too much power to Hyundai’s controlling Chung family at the expense of shareholders, Reuters reported. S.&amp;P. 500 futures are up this morning, suggesting yesterday’s market rout may not continue. And European and Asian markets didn’t fall as sharply as did the U.S.’s. But what’s behind the markets dropping 4 percent so far this year? A couple of ideas: • Washington (and Beijing), again: China’s tougher-than-expected retaliatory tariffs gave investors more reason to fear a trade war. American pork and fruit producers are among those sweating. “The Trump administration’s unorthodox and unpredictable decision-making is likely to keep markets on edge,” Mike Ryan of UBS Wealth Management told the FT. • Tech, again: The FAANG stocks are still weighing down the S.&amp;P. 500 and the Nasdaq, as the likes of Facebook and Google face the prospect of greater regulation and President Trump repeats his attacks on Amazon. (Tesla was down, too, but that’s more understandable.) • Technical issues: Traders could be trimming bull market bets. Peter Eavis’s take: Before investors began fretting about tech and trade, the underpinnings of the stock market’s ascent were perhaps not as robust as they looked. Analysts expect S.&amp;P. 500 companies’ earnings to grow 25 percent this year. But rising interest rates worldwide could affect revenue growth. And if wages and other costs come in higher than expected, profit margins could get squeezed. The bottom line: Uncertainty has descended upon the markets, and it will be hard to shake off. In his latest column, Andrew suggests a way the company could make its practices more transparent — one that Google and Amazon could consider, while we’re at it: a button next to every ad and piece of content that would explain why a user is seeing it. More from Andrew: Also: Mark Zuckerberg just mused about greater transparency to Vox, and suggested an independent appeals process to review content on Facebook. Scott Stringer, the New York City comptroller, wants him out as Facebook’s chairman. And why Southeast Asia, Facebook’s fastest-growing market, poses it unique problems. Elsewhere in data privacy: Beijing and other governments are figuring out what data regulation means for A.I. And Grindr, the gay dating app, has stopped sharing users’ HIV statuses after a BuzzFeed exposé. • Amazon has visited more than half the cities shortlisted for its second headquarters, unnamed sources said, and the rest are scrambling for tips on their itineraries. (WSJ) • Anthony Tan, the C.E.O. of Grab, speaks about beating Uber in Southeast Asia. (CNBC) • Walmart is partnering with MoneyGram on a global remittance service, Walmart2World. (CNBC) • Apple reportedly aims to start replacing Intel chips in iMacs with its own from 2020. (Bloomberg) • Federal authorities arrested two founders of Centra, a virtual currency endorsed by Floyd Mayweather, and accused them of fraud. Shares in Monex Group rose after reports that it might buy the troubled cryptocurrency exchange Coincheck. And researchers suggest a new way to value Bitcoin (they say it’s overpriced). In offering to buy Sky News outright, Walt Disney is hoping to finally win regulatory approval for Fox’s bid to buy the 61 percent of Sky that it doesn’t already own. (Fox itself has proposed making Sky News fully separate, giving it an independent board and funding it for 15 years.) The bottom line: Disney wants Fox to have full control of Sky to support its $52.4 billion deal to buy most of Fox, and it wants to get ahead of Comcast’s rival effort to buy that 39 percent of the British broadcaster. Elsewhere in deals: Harbor Energy has offered more than $10 billion to buy Santos, the Australian natural-gas driller. Why Sumner Redstone won’t have the last word on merging CBS and Viacom. Walmart is reportedly in talks to buy PillPack, an online pharmacy start-up. G.E. will sell part of its health care info-tech business to Veritas Capital for $1.05 billion. And GreenSky, an online lender to customers of retailers like Home Depot, has reportedly filed for an I.P.O. • John Kelly has considered firing Scott Pruitt, the director of the Environmental Protection Agency, whose travel expenses and housing arrangements have faced scrutiny. (Politico) • The E.P.A. has challenged California’s car emission standards, while the Justice Department has sued the state over a newly passed state law governing land use. • Mick Mulvaney asked Congress to weaken the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, where he’s acting head. (NYT) • The White House nominated Justin Muzinich, an architect of the Republican tax overhaul, to be Steven Mnuchin’s deputy at the Treasury. (NYT) • New York State may offer its own retirement fund for private-sector workers. (NYT) • Meet Brian Ballard, one of Washington’s most powerful lobbyists. (Politico) • John Thain is reportedly set to join Deutsche Bank’s supervisory board as part of a broader reshuffle. (Bloomberg) • Phil Villhauer, a former top trader at Steven Cohen’s investment firm Point72, will join Citadel as deputy head of global equities. (NYT) • John Giannandrea will step down as head of search and A.I. at Google. Ben Gomes will take over the search unit and Jeff Dean will lead the A.I. division. (The Information) • Three directors — Jim Messina, Jim Rosenthal and Peter Diamandis — have stepped down from Virgin Hyperloop One’s board. A fourth, Ziyavudin Magomedov, was arrested in Moscow on fraud charges unrelated to the transport company. (Bloomberg) • Adam Metz, the Carlyle Group’s head of international real estate, and Jason Lee, the firm’s head of Asia real estate, have left the firm or will depart soon, according to unnamed sources. (Bloomberg) • Sinclair Broadcast Group is taking heat over videos that show dozens of its local newscasters reading the same script criticizing their industry. Meanwhile, Malaysia’s lower house of Parliament passed a bill outlawing fake news. • A celebrity jeweler, Nirav Modi, is on the run amid accusations that he accumulated almost $3 billion illegally, most of it from India’s state-run banks. (NYT) • Mario Batali, who vanished from television and daily operations in his restaurant empire after accusations of misconduct, is eyeing a comeback. (NYT) • Iftikar Ahmed was found liable for defrauding the venture firm Oak Investment Partners, where he was a general partner. (Axios) • Private capital markets have become the most popular way to raise money in the U.S., raising concerns about oversight and concentration of power. (WSJ) • A writer at Splinter reflects on what private equity has meant for his publisher, Univision. (Splinter) • Michael Liberty has been accused by the S.E.C. of looting Mozido, the fintech company he founded, for tens of millions of dollars. (WSJ) We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.