 Happy Thursday. Here’s what we’re watching: • Harry’s wants to take on P.&amp;G. • Are rising rates good or bad for stocks? • How Mick Mulvaney is softening the C.F.P.B • Steven Mnuchin is promising to quickly shut down hedge funds’ latest tax dodge. • Why is Peter Thiel abandoning the Bay Area? Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up. U.S. Bancorp, based in Minneapolis, has long had a reputation for being one of the best-run large regional banks in the country. But because the bank’s anti-money laundering controls were inadequate, it failed to spot and investigate a large number of suspicious transactions, federal prosecutors for the Southern District of New York said on Thursday. U.S. Bancorp said it would pay $613 million in penalties to settle the missteps with the Department of Justice and other agencies. The prosecutors highlighted the bank’s handling of a high-profile customer who, they asserted, should have set off alarm bells: U.S. Bancorp said on Thursday that it had put in place measure to improve its anti-money laundering controls. The missteps under scrutiny took place between 2009 and 2014. — Peter Eavis The founders of Harry’s turned their company into a fast-growing competitor to established giants like Gillette in the $2.4 billion shaving industry. Now they want to take on Gillette’s parent company, Procter &amp; Gamble. Harry’s plans to announce as soon as this week that it has raised $112 million in a new round of financing, money that its leaders said would help the company develop brands beyond men’s grooming. “We’ve built a lot of infrastructure at Harry’s that we think we can leverage into new categories,” Jeff Raider, one of Harry’s founders, said in a telephone interview. “It’s something that we’ve been excited about for a long time, and we’re now at a point in our business where we can act on it.” — Michael de la Merced A week ago the major United States indexes fell into a correction, defined as a 10 percent decline from a recent high. The cause? Fears the economy was heating up, which would lead to a pickup in inflation and Federal Reserve raising rates faster than anticipated. But in the week since the S.&amp;P. 500 has stage a comeback. The index is up 7.6 percent and on pace for best week since 2014, according to Bloomberg. In fact, the S.&amp;P. 500 and Dow Jones industrial average rose more than 2 percent the past two days despite the latest inflation data coming in much higher than expected. So what happened to those concerns about inflation?  One explanation for why stock investors shrugged off the inflation data was a very weak report on retail sales. Investors seemed to take that as evidence the economy is not overheating and that the Fed will continue to raise rates at a very slow pace. Two weeks ago when the sell-off started, the Atlanta Fed’s GDPNow forecast for first-quarter G.D.P. fell to 3.25 percent from 5.4 percent two weeks ago. “While it does appear that inflation is accelerating, it appears much less likely that the economy is really taking off and forcing the Fed into a more aggressive rate hiking cycle,” write the strategists over at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The bigger picture A rising rate environment is not necessarily a bad thing for stocks. Jodie Gunzberg, the head of United States equities at S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices, points out that since 1971 the S&amp;P 500: • has returned about 20% on average in rising rate periods • has gained 8 of 9 times • has gained nearly 40% twice • loss less than a 4% once An article from ProPublica on Thursday provides new insight into what’s going on under Mick Mulvaney at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the agency set up after the financial crisis to stamp out lending abuses. Since President Trump appointed Mr. Mulvaney as temporary head in November, his critics say he has taken steps to soften the bureau’s oversight of banks and other financial firms. ProPublica’s article centers on the bureau’s handling of investigations into Wells Fargo. It reports that Mr. Mulvaney ordered restrictions on the accessing of personal data of Wells Fargo customers, a move that hampered the bureau’s investigations. An exemption on the freeze was later granted to enforcement staff looking into Wells Fargo’s auto insurance business. But ProPublica added: — Peter Eavis Hedge funds have been creating scores of shell companies to get around new restrictions on carried interest payouts, which are taxed at 20 percent instead of the higher individual rate. The tax overhaul requires funds to hold onto investments for three years to qualify for the lower rate. They’ve been getting around it by creating single-member LLCs in Delaware to receive carried interest payouts. More from Miles Weiss of Bloomberg: Steven Mnuchin has promised moves to close the loophole within two weeks. Elsewhere in taxes: President Trump backs a 25 cent increase in gas taxes for infrastructure spending. Cisco will repatriate $67 billion in overseas profits after the tax overhaul. And elsewhere in hedge funds: Yesterday was 13F day: Here’s what the big firms invested in. Why is Peter Thiel — the PayPal co-founder, early Facebook backer and notable Trump backer — leaving the Bay Area for Los Angeles, as the WSJ reports, citing unnamed sources? The headline reason is his belief that Silicon Valley is too intolerant of conservatives and libertarians. But there’s an interesting second reason in the article (emphasis added): The WSJ reports that Mr. Thiel will spend at least a bit more time working on a non-tech endeavor: a right-leaning media organization. He will still be involved in Founders Fund, the V.C. firm he co-founded, as well as stay on the boards of Facebook, the data consultancy Palantir and other tech companies. — Michael de la Merced The New Jersey-based start-up co-founded by Dr. Peter Diamandis, the founder of X-Prize Foundation, and Dr. Bob Hariri, a former Celgene executive, announced that it has raised $250 million. The company is developing treatments for diseases from cancer to autoimmune disorders using stem cells from the placenta. “My goal is to make it so the next generation grows up in a world where cancer is managed just like the common cold, and the body’s natural regenerative engine remains empowered throughout our lives,” said Dr. Hariri. Celgene, United Therapeutics, Sorrento Therapeutics, Human Longevity, the Dreyfus Family Office and Section 32 took part in the series-A funding. In other health care deal news • Roche is buying Flatiron Health, an Alphabet-backed cancer-focused start-up founded by two former Google employees, CNBC reports citing according to sources familiar with the matter. The company will pay $1.9 billion, adding to its existing stake, for a total value of $2.1 billion. Asian and European stock indexes are up this morning. So are S. &amp; P. 500 futures, indicating a strong open. And in the bond markets? Ten-year Treasury yields are at a four-year high. Why? The Bureau of Labor Statistics’ inflation report was higher than expected. But weaker retail sales tempered those fears — at least for equity investors. What economists think: “The risk is now that the Federal Reserve pencils in four rate hikes [for this year] when it meets in March,” Peter Hooper, the chief economist at Deutsche Bank, told the FT. Peter Eavis’s take To some, the bond market is a particularly prescient predictor of economic trends. So is it picking up on an inflationary surge that the Federal Reserve likely will take too long to recognize? But the overheating fears may be overdone. Yesterday’s January inflation report was hardly conclusive. Michael Feroli, an economist at JPMorgan Chase, said that the January increase “probably overstates the underlying trend.” Still, even though there are reasons to believe that while the U.S. economy is breaking out of its recent rut — thanks to big tax cuts and a revival of the global economy — it may not be as vibrant as it looks. The economic flyaround • Reasons for doubt about the Trump administration’s economic optimism. (Upshot) • How Harvard and others bet on markets staying calm. (WSJ) • The stock market should be cheaper, argues Eduardo Porter. (NYT) If Nestlé won’t expand its holdings in the cosmetics giant beyond 23 percent, as its C.E.O. said during an earnings report today, that leaves one logical place to go. (Caveat: Selling might make Third Point’s Dan Loeb happy, but Nestlé doesn’t want to rush and lose out on L’Oréal’s sales growth.) Nestlé added that its future is likely to contain more deals in the several-hundred-million range of the Blue Bottle Coffee takeover. “The sweet spot is in small to mid-sized deals, but we don’t want to rule out anything,” its C.E.O., Mark Schneider, said. The deals flyaround • The Goldman Sachs bankers who helped Amazon buy Whole Foods Market feared that the Trump administration would squash the deal to spite Jeff Bezos. (BI) • Fox’s bid for control of Sky may hinge on Rupert Murdoch’s character. (Bloomberg) • Thomson Reuters’ chairman has reservations about his company’s $17 billion deal with the Blackstone Group. (WSJ) • Was Broadcom wise to offer a big antitrust breakup fee in its Qualcomm bid? (Gadfly) • Tax authorities have requested documents from lenders and investors in real estate projects managed by Jared Kushner’s family, an unnamed source says. (Bloomberg) • Rebekah Mercer wrote in an op-ed that Steve Bannon had taken Breitbart in the wrong direction, and it could expand its influence without him. (WSJ) • The F.C.C.’s inspector general is investigating whether its chairman, Ajit Pal, timed deregulatory moves to benefit Sinclair Broadcasting. (NYT) • Senators agreed on an immigration proposal, one of a sort that President Trump has threatened to veto. (NYT) • After Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer declared that he himself had paid $130,000 to the pornographic actress Stormy Daniels, he faces questions about ethics and breach of contract. (NYT) • More than 130 administration officials — including Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner and the White House counsel, Don McGahn — lacked permanent security clearance as recently as November. (NBC) • Fannie Mae is seeking $3.7 billion from the Treasury Department after reporting a $6.5 billion loss for the fourth quarter. (WSJ) • The E.P.A.’s chief, Scott Pruitt, said he had traveled in first class and on military jets for security reasons. And read about a loophole in emissions regulations for trucks favored by backers of the Trump administration. Here’s what Dara Khosrowshahi said of the company’s deep-pocketed new backer yesterday at Goldman Sachs’s annual tech conference: “Rather than having their capital cannon facing me, I’d rather have their capital cannon behind me, all right?” He added that SoftBank’s Masa Son “is a visionary — if a visionary wants to make a bet on you, let’s make it happen.” He also offered this ambition: “I want you to be able to take an Uber and get into the subway — if the trains are running on time, you’ve got real-time data — get in the subway, get out and have an Uber waiting for you for right now. Or know that there’s a bike right there for you that gets you where you’re going in the fastest manner.” • Amazon will work with Bank of America on small-business lending, unnamed sources say. Its Washington lobbying operation has become formidable. And it’s planning 2,000 new hires in France. • Mark Zuckerberg has accelerated sales of his Facebook stocks to fund the philanthropic Chan Zuckerberg Initiative. (Recode) • Google’s Chrome browser will block some online ads. Critics say the choice of which types to block is self-serving. (WSJ) • Snapchat said it would let creators of “Official Stories” see analytics about the performance of their work. (Axios) In the latest White Collar Watch column, Peter Henning considers the potential benefits of  a separate regulator for virtual currencies: Elsewhere in virtual currencies: Charlie Munger thinks Bitcoin is “noxious poison.” And Bitcoin’s up 12 percent over the last 24 hours, at $9,972, according to CoinMarketCap. • Elizabeth Warren has written to Wells Fargo about its botched efforts to repay wronged customers. (WSJ) • Goldman may be having some success in turning around its fixed-income trading unit, but it might do even better by buying Bank of New York Mellon. (Breakingviews) • Some senior Credit Suisse executives had their secretaries complete compliance training for them. (TheStreet) • Citigroup has won its first local mandate in Saudi Arabia since returning to the kingdom, advising a budget airline owned by Kingdom Holding on its I.P.O. (Bloomberg) • One of India’s largest commercial lenders said it had detected fraudulent transactions worth $1.77 billion at just one of its branches, raising fears of a potential ripple effect across Indian banking. (NYT) • Goldman Sachs named Dusty Philip as a co-head of its global M. &amp; A. team, joining Michael Carr and Gilberto Pozzi. Matt McClure, currently a co-head of Americas M. &amp; A., will replace Mr. Philip as co-head of the global industrials team. (DealBook) • Deirdre Latour is stepping down as G.E.’s chief communications officer next month. Linda Boff, the company’s chief marketing officer, will be her interim replacement. (G.E.) — Dana Walden of Fox, on Ryan Murphy’s blockbuster five-year, $300 million deal with Netflix • State financial regulators in New York said that they would investigate reports that gay men had been denied insurance because they were taking H.I.V.-prevention medication. (NYT) • Private equity firms are doing more of their own capital markets work, bringing new risks as well as new fees. (WSJ) • Bridgewater has made a $22 billion bet against some of Europe’s biggest companies, according to filings. (Reuters) • Lucio Lanza, a longtime venture capital investor, is being sued by the founder of a medical start-up, who accuses him of sexually assaulting her on a plane. (Business Insider) We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.