 After a barrage of customer complaints, the First National Bank of Omaha said on Thursday that it would withdraw its National Rifle Association-branded Visa credit card. Several hours later, Enterprise Holdings, the parent company of three rental car brands, Enterprise, Alamo and National, said it was ending a discount program for N.R.A. members. “Customer feedback has caused us to review our relationship with the N.R.A.,” Kevin C. Langin, a First National Bank of Omaha spokesman, said in a statement. “As a result, First National Bank of Omaha will not renew its contract with the National Rifle Association to issue the N.R.A. Visa Card.” Mr. Langin declined to provide the contract’s expiration date, to say whether the card was already inactive or to describe what the move’s impact on cardholders would be. The N.R.A. did not immediately respond to a request for comment late Thursday afternoon. Many of the bank’s customers had used social media to threaten to stop doing business with the company if it maintained its ties to the firearms trade group. On Wednesday, a web page describing the card was taken down. A cached version of the website describes the card as “the official credit card of the N.R.A.” and offers a $40 credit with the first purchase made on the card. “That’s enough to reimburse your one-year N.R.A. membership!” the page said. Visa, in a statement, said that it had no contractual or financial relationship with the N.R.A. “Visa co-branded cards do not represent an endorsement by Visa of that cause or organization,” the company said. “We strive to make our payment services available to all people in all places, for uses consistent with local, national, and international laws.” Enterprise announced its decision on Twitter, saying it was responding to recent messages it had received objecting to the company’s ties to the N.R.A. “We ended the discount for NRA members,” the message said. “This change will be effective March 26. Thank you again for reaching out.”