 Q. After many years, I started using the Firefox browser again, and the start page for this new version is covered with links and icons. Can I change it? A. Mozilla, which released Firefox 1.0 in 2004, significantly overhauled the browser last year and named it Firefox Quantum. In addition to retooling the software to make it faster and use less of the computer’s memory than previous versions, the program got a bit of a visual redesign, including a new look for the New Tab page. The first row of the New Tab page displays icons for the “Top Sites” you visit frequently or have used recently. If you have specific sites you would like to pin to the page or remove from view, you can customize the Top Sites collection. Just move the cursor over the top-right corner of an icon and click to get a menu of options. The Recommended by Pocket section of the New Tab page shows trending or currently relevant news stories collected by Pocket and based on your browsing history. (Pocket’s software lets users save online content for later consumption, and Mozilla owns the company.) The Highlights section at the bottom of the New Tab page displays sites you have recently browsed or bookmarked. To pin or remove these from the page, graze the cursor over the top-right corner of the item and click the three-dot icon to get to the options menu. You can remove entire sections from the New Tab page by clicking the menu arrow next to the titles. To set all of your preferences for the look of the New Tab page at once, click the gear-shaped icon in the top-right corner. If you do not want to see any of the bookmark icons and stories on the New Tab page when you start Firefox, you can choose a site to be your regular home page instead. To set a new start page, go to the site you wish to see each time Firefox opens. Next, drag the page’s tab at the top of the window and drop it on the house icon in the Firefox tool bar. Click Yes in the box to confirm your intention to set the open page as your new home page.