 A woman told the police that she had a child with the casino mogul Steve Wynn after he raped her, while another reported that she was forced to resign from a Las Vegas job after she refused to have sex with him. The Associated Press on Tuesday obtained copies of police reports recently filed by the two women about allegations dating to the 1970s. The police in Las Vegas said this month that they had taken the statements after a news report in January revealed sexual misconduct allegations against the billionaire. The allegations are the latest leveled against Mr. Wynn. He resigned as chairman and chief executive of Wynn Resorts on Feb. 6, less than two weeks after The Wall Street Journal reported in an in-depth investigation that a number of women said he harassed or assaulted them and that one case led to a $7.5 million settlement. Mr. Wynn has vehemently denied the misconduct accusations the newspaper reported, and he attributed them to a campaign led by his ex-wife, Elaine Wynn, whose lawyer has denied that she instigated the news article. The fallout for Mr. Wynn and his empire has been swift since the first allegations were disclosed. He  resigned as finance chairman of the Republican National Committee, and his name was stripped from buildings and programs at various universities. In one police report obtained by The A.P., a woman told police officers that Mr. Wynn raped her at least three times around 1973 and 1974 at her Chicago apartment. She reported that she became pregnant and gave birth to a girl in a gas station restroom. In one instance, the woman claimed that Mr. Wynn pinned her against the refrigerator and raped her. She said he then made a phone call, kissed her on the cheek and left. The report does not explain how Mr. Wynn would have entered the apartment or whether they had known each other. The woman said she did not give him a key. In the second police report, a woman told the police that she had consensual sex with Mr. Wynn “several times” while she worked as a dealer at a downtown Las Vegas casino-hotel called the Golden Nugget, but “felt coerced to perform the acts.” She reported that she was forced to resign when she turned him down. The women’s names are redacted on the reports, and the police said they did not identify people who said they were victims of sex crimes. The Las Vegas case will not be investigated because the statute of limitations in Nevada is 20 years. Ralph Frammolino, a spokesman for Mr. Wynn, on Tuesday declined to comment on the latest allegations. Wynn Resorts is also facing scrutiny by gambling regulators in Nevada and Massachusetts, where the company is building a $2.4 billion casino outside Boston. Regulators in Macau, the Chinese enclave where the company operates two casinos, are also inquiring about the allegations. In addition, groups of shareholders have filed lawsuits in state court in Las Vegas accusing Mr. Wynn and the board of Wynn Resorts of breaching their fiduciary duties by ignoring what the lawsuits described as a longstanding pattern of sexual abuse and harassment by the company’s founder.