 Netflix will film the sixth and final season of “House of Cards” with Robin Wright in the lead role, the company announced on Monday. The season will be eight episodes — significantly shorter than previous seasons, which featured 13 episodes each — and will not include Kevin Spacey, who led the show to critical acclaim but was fired after a series of sexual assault allegations this fall. “We’re really excited about bringing some closure to the show for fans,” Ted Sarandos, Netflix’s chief content officer, said at the UBS Global Media and Communications Conference on Monday. “We’re excited for the 370 people who make ‘House of Cards’ and have done the best work of their lives on that show; for the 2,000 people in Baltimore who have come to depend on that show for their jobs. And so we’re really excited that we were able to come to a good creative conclusion to the show.” Ms. Wright’s publicist did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Monday. In late October, the Broadway actor Anthony Rapp told BuzzFeed that Mr. Spacey had tried to sexually assault him in 1986, when Mr. Rapp was 14; Mr. Spacey apologized for what he described as “deeply inappropriate drunken behavior.” That report was followed by a slew of other allegations of sexual misconduct, including from more than 20 people at the Old Vic theater in London, where Mr. Spacey was artistic director from 2004 to 2015. The accusations involve episodes as recent as 2016, when he is alleged to have sexually assaulted an 18-year-old at a bar on Nantucket, Mass. Media Rights Capital, the studio behind “House of Cards,” suspended Mr. Spacey shortly after Mr. Rapp came forward, and Netflix said it would not be involved with any further production involving Mr. Spacey. The sixth season will be the show’s last — a decision Netflix announced after the allegations came out but said had been made months earlier. The announcement on Monday resolved the uncertainty that had surrounded “House of Cards” since the end of October, when Netflix and Media Rights Capital suspended production on the final season “to give us time to review the current situation and to address any concerns of our cast and crew.” The first five seasons of “House of Cards” starred Mr. Spacey as Frank Underwood, a ruthless Southern politician who ascends to the presidency. Ms. Wright plays Claire Underwood, Frank’s wife. At the end of the fifth season, in a case of art echoing life, Claire became president after Frank resigned in disgrace.