 The CBS News program “60 Minutes” has set a date of March 25 for when it will show a recently conducted interview with the pornographic film actress who says she had an affair with Donald J. Trump. A person briefed on the process, who would speak about it only on the condition of anonymity, confirmed that the segment with the porn star, Stephanie Clifford, would run then. Ms. Clifford, who goes by the stage name Stormy Daniels, spoke with the “60 Minutes” contributor Anderson Cooper last week. Ms. Clifford went forward with the interview, which her lawyer first hinted about in a tweet featuring a photograph of him, Ms. Clifford and Mr. Cooper. It proceeded despite an arbitrator’s ruling reaffirming an agreement that she reached with Mr. Trump in October 2016 to remain silent about their alleged relationship in exchange for $130,000. She has said she had a consensual relationship with Mr. Trump that started in 2006 and lasted several months. In recent weeks, Ms. Clifford’s lawyer, Michael Avenatti, has led a publicity blitz, appearing frequently on cable news shows, since she filed a lawsuit on March 6 seeking to break her 2016 agreement. She asserts that the nondisclosure agreement was void because Mr. Trump did not personally sign it. That lawsuit came after Michael D. Cohen, the president’s longtime personal lawyer who said he paid her $130,000 legally pressured her to stay silent. Days before Ms. Clifford sued, Mr. Cohen secretly obtained a temporary restraining through an arbitrator in California to prevent her from speaking about her alleged affair. Mr. Avenatti wrote in a letter to Mr. Cohen on Monday that Ms. Clifford would be willing to pay back the $130,000 to end the deal to stay quiet. The offer had a deadline of noon Tuesday for Mr. Cohen to answer, which came and went. Her interview with Mr. Cooper raised the prospect that Mr. Cohen might seek an injunction to stop CBS News from showing it. Over the weekend, CBS said it had not received any legal threats. Mr. Cohen did not return a call seeking comment on Thursday night.