 CNN is turning to one of its morning anchors to shore up prime time. Chris Cuomo, the outspoken co-host of “New Day,” who has gained prominence — and received some right-wing blowback — for his coverage of the Trump administration, is set to take over the network’s 9 p.m. slot on weeknights starting in the spring, CNN said on Wednesday. The move would catapult Mr. Cuomo, 47 — a son of Mario Cuomo, the former New York governor, and the brother of Andrew Cuomo, the current governor — into the highest echelon of cable news, pitting him directly against Rachel Maddow of MSNBC and Sean Hannity of Fox News. CNN has struggled recently in prime time, falling to third place behind Fox News and MSNBC, as viewers are increasingly drawn to partisan commentary. Anderson Cooper, who hosts the network’s coverage between 8 and 10 p.m., attracted about a third of Mr. Hannity’s audience last month, for instance. Shifting Mr. Cuomo to weeknights would reduce Mr. Cooper’s prime-time footprint from two hours to one. John Berman, a veteran television anchor and correspondent, is set to replace Mr. Cuomo on “New Day,” where he will lead the network’s morning coverage with the current co-anchor, Alisyn Camerota. CNN remains a lightning rod for President Trump, the target of “fake news” chants at rallies and the president’s own vicious tweets. Its prime-time coverage is focused on analysis by experts and political veterans — a contrast to the deeply partisan monologues by the likes of Ms. Maddow and Mr. Hannity, both of whom regularly draw more than three million viewers a night. Mr. Cooper, in February, averaged slightly more than a million viewers. Mr. Cuomo had recently been substituting for Mr. Cooper at 9 p.m., drawing a similar audience of around a million viewers nightly. Another CNN anchor, Jake Tapper, also briefly filled in at 9 p.m. last year. “Cuomo Prime Time,” as the new show will be called, is expected to feature one-on-one interviews by the voluble Mr. Cuomo, who has clashed memorably on air with White House figures like Anthony Scaramucci, the former communications director, and Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor. Mr. Cuomo also maintains an energetic Twitter account,  where he often interacts and argues with fans and critics, sometimes defending his on-air coverage during commercial breaks. His move to prime time does come with risks, including the potentially awkward prospect of Mr. Cuomo’s anchoring evening political news while his brother, Andrew Cuomo, pursues a possible run for the presidency in 2020. He has worked at most of the major broadcast and cable networks, with his longest stint at ABC News, where he anchored the magazine show “20/20” and co-hosted “Good Morning America,” reporting from the Middle East and Haiti, among other international locations. He joined CNN in 2013, one of the earliest poachings by the network’s then-newly appointed president, Jeffrey A. Zucker. Mr. Cuomo’s television work might seem prominent in any family but his own. He belongs to a political dynasty, and in interviews he has recounted his relatives’ skepticism about his chosen career. “My father struggled with it as a significant form of service,” Mr. Cuomo told New York magazine in 2010.