 Q. Is there a way to install and use additional TrueType fonts on Apple iOS devices, specifically on the iPad? A. You can add new fonts to an iPhone, an iPad or an iPod Touch, but you have to do it in a roundabout way, and the additional typefaces will not be available to use everywhere on the device. Apple allows you to change the size of the type in the iOS Settings for many of the system’s built-in apps, like Mail and the Calendar, but unless you jailbreak the software and go hacking around with unsupported methods, you cannot change the fonts used by iOS. However, using third-party apps and services, you can install TrueType and OpenType fonts on the device. These added fonts should work with word-processing, spreadsheet, presentation and other programs on your device. You can see what utilities are available by going to the iOS App Store and searching for “font installer.” Most font apps are inexpensive, but usually require in-app purchases to get certain typefaces. AnyFont, Fonteer and iFont are among the many apps available in this category, and install additional fonts to use with Microsoft Office and Apple’s iWork suite so that files look the same on an iOS device as they do on a PC or a Mac. New fonts are typically added to the mobile device by emailing or downloading them. When browsing for a font-installer app, check its specifications to make sure it is compatible with the iOS apps you want to use.  If you buy licenses for your desktop fonts from a specific digital type company, check to see if you can also install the files on an iOS device. For example, the Hoefler &amp; Company digital type foundry has specific instructions in the support area of its site. Android users can find similar font-handling apps in the Google Play Store. Before deciding on an app, make sure it is compatible with your hardware and software. Some apps, like Montotype’s FlipFont, do not work on all Android phones. Personal Tech invites questions about computer-based technology to techtip@nytimes.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually.