 Consumers struggling with holiday spending hangovers may want to reconsider resorting to overdrafts on their checking accounts. Banks often market overdraft programs as a way for customers to smooth out occasional budgeting problems. But many consumers don’t understand how they work and end up using overdrafts as a kind of high-cost credit, according to a new report from the Pew Charitable Trusts. An overdraft occurs when you spend more than you have in your checking account, but your bank allows the payment to go through, and charges you a fee. The fees vary, but big banks typically charge about $35. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau recently estimated that consumers pay $17 billion in such fees each year. Banks’ overdraft revenue tends to rise each quarter of the calendar year before dropping again in the first quarter, suggesting that consumers may be crunched for cash and particularly vulnerable to such fees at the end of the year, said Thaddeus King, an officer with Pew’s consumer finance project. The federal government requires consumers to give permission by “opting in” to overdraft coverage for debit card purchases and automated teller machine withdrawals. If they don’t opt in, and they attempt a debit card purchase or A.T.M. withdrawal that exceeds their balance, the transaction is declined, without a fee. But many consumers — nearly three in four, according to Pew’s finding — don’t realize that they have a choice. Among those who have overdrawn their accounts in the past 12 months, Pew found, more than half are “heavy” overdrafters, who have done it at least three times. Customers’ understanding of how overdraft coverage works is low, even among those who have spoken to their bank about it, the report found. That suggests that banks’ communication about overdraft programs is ineffective, according to the report. Customers “don’t seem to understand that when you opt out, you don’t pay the fee,” Mr. King said. He called the finding “somewhat disheartening.” Pew suggested that many consumers would benefit if banks were instead able to offer lower-cost, small-installment loans with clear rules to protect borrowers. Such loans could be safely made if they were capped at 5 percent of the borrower’s paycheck, Pew said. Many banks and credit unions have said they would be open to making such loans if they were given clear guidelines from regulators, Mr. King said. The Pew report, published in December, was based on a telephone survey in April and May of more than 1,000 adults who reported paying an overdraft fee in the prior year. Here are some questions and answers about bank overdraft fees: How can I avoid overdraft fees? Consumer advocates often advise against agreeing to overdraft fees. If you don’t opt in and you make a purchase with your debit card that would overdraw your account, the purchase will simply be declined and banks can’t charge you a fee. Consumer Reports notes that some big banks — like Bank of America and Chase — have “lower risk” accounts that don’t offer overdraft coverage. It’s also worth asking about other consumer-friendly policies when shopping for a bank account. Some banks waive fees on small overdrafts — say, $10 or less. Consumers can change their minds and drop overdraft coverage at any time, according to the Consumer Bankers Association, a trade group for retail banks. If you do choose coverage, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau suggests setting up low-balance alerts on your account so that you receive a text or email when your account drops below a certain level. Also, most banks now offer smartphone apps that make it easy to check your balance before making a purchase so you can hold off if funds are tight. You can also set up an overdraft transfer by linking your checking account to a savings account; funds will be automatically transferred when you overspend. You may still pay a transfer fee, but it’s usually less than an overdraft fee. Can I decline overdraft coverage when writing checks? No. Banks don’t need your permission to charge you a fee for overspending your account because of a check or for some other transactions, like recurring debit transactions and some electronic payments. Are there efforts to make bank overdraft policies more understandable? Last summer, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau began testing new overdraft explanation documents, with the goal of helping bank customers better evaluate their options. It’s not clear if or when the bureau will formally propose that banks use the forms. You can see the prototypes, however, on the agency’s website.