 If Procter &amp; Gamble were sponsoring a 2018 advertisement for avoiding activists, it might include an in-house remedy for removing corporate stains. Investors seeking new strategies, more dividends, executive changes or board seats aren’t going away. If anything, the siege of P.&amp;G. by Nelson Peltz, whose Trian Partners gained a director’s seat after a 10-month campaign, will embolden others to take up the cause. Resistance isn’t futile, but it needs to be more carefully considered. From General Motors to Whole Foods, no company was off limits in 2017. P.&amp;G. proved size is no defense; the $230 billion conglomerate was the largest ever target for a proxy fight. Companies with a market capitalization of over $10 billion made up 21.4 percent of targets in the first 11 months of 2017, up more than two percentage points from the previous year, according to Activist Insight. Expect that trend to continue in 2018 even though activists went home empty-handed in more cases than not in those 11 months, which wasn’t the case the previous year. For companies, the best defense is a good offense. G.M.’s Mary Barra handily fended off David Einhorn’s attempt to split the stock. It helped that she had already begun to address the stock’s discount by selling off the automaker’s European brands before Mr. Einhorn launched his campaign, and that she carefully outlined the company’s long-term strategy. Automatic Data Processing sent Bill Ackman packing by pointing out its efforts to transform its technology and the hedge-fund manager’s comparatively poor performance. For activists, sharp instincts and finely honed demands hold the key to success. Mr. Peltz made clear he wasn’t seeking to break up P.&amp;G. and sought a single board seat to push for new blood in management and greater emphasis on new products and mergers and acquisitions. The defiant 10-month defense by the chief executive, David Taylor, seemed out of proportion to the activist’s ask and ultimately undercut Mr. Taylor’s credibility. Look for more executives to follow the example of General Electric’s John Flannery, who enlisted Mr. Peltz as an ally by giving Trian a board seat without a proxy fight. P.&amp;G.’s boardroom makeover offers companies an opportunity to wash their dirty laundry. Entrenchment, egocentricity and poor performance without a clear plan are a checklist for activist success. Chief executives and board members looking to fend them off need to add softener to their pride and starch to their corporate plans.