 Good Thursday. Here’s what is happening: • Morgan Stanley has fired Harold Ford Jr. for misconduct. • Bob Iger might stay at Disney a little longer. • Bitcoin Surges Past $16,000 Like what you see? Get the DealBook Briefing in your inbox each morning. Here’s the sign-up. The Associated Press reports:  Take a look at its move over the past 40 hours. Late Tuesday one bitcoin traded around $11,700. Since then it has surged more that 60 percent, crossed eight millennial markers, and briefly surpassed $19,000. The cryptocurrency has retreated since crossing $19,000 and was recently trading above $16,500. Bitcoin was valued at less than $1,000 at the start of the year and has gained more than 15,000 percent so far this year. As Brooks Barnes put it in the NYT, the executive who replaces Mr. Iger as Disney’s C.E.O. when his contract is up in 2019 may be Mr. Iger himself. This time, the reason is that if Disney clinches a deal to buy huge chunks of 21st Century Fox, Mr. Iger would be needed to oversee integration of the operations. Andrew adds: All this highlights Disney’s succession problem. News reports have said that James Murdoch, Fox’s chief executive, who could join Disney, may eventually step up. (That idea isn’t among the formal negotiating points between Disney and Fox.) Don’t forget Comcast: The cable giant is still talking with Fox (though Disney is in the lead). Bloomberg says Comcast’s real targets are international assets like Fox’s stakes in the Star media empire in India and the British broadcaster Sky. And here’s a lighter take on the Disney-Fox talks, courtesy of Paul Pendergass, formerly DealBook’s “Jack Flack” columnist. About $6.5 billion a week, according to a report from S&amp;P Global analysts. That would shave roughly 0.2% off fourth quarter gross domestic product each week the government is closed. Congress faces a midnight deadline Friday to avert a partial government shutdown. The House is scheduled to vote Thursday on a bill that would fund the government through Dec. 22. But drama built earlier this week over whether the House would have pass legislation to avert a shutdown as conservative members voiced their oposition. The latest: House Speaker Paul Ryan suggested to the Associated Press that House Republicans have enough votes even if all Democrats vote against the measure. Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina and chairman of the hard-line House Freedom Caucus, said the group will likely provide the Republican leadership with the needed votes. What about the debt ceiling? The threat of a shutdown comes as the government runs up against its debt limit. Writes Beth Ann Bovino, S&amp;P Global’s chief U.S. economist: Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told Congress Wednesday that he will start using the “extraordinary measures” at noon on Friday. UnitedHealth’s $4.9 billion takeover of a physician group from DaVita may not be as big as CVS’s deal for Aetna. But it highlights how fast traditional boundaries in health care are dissolving. UnitedHealth has been disrupting the industry for a long time. It already owns a pharmacy benefit manager and an outpatient services provider. Now the DaVita division will give it a doctor network. Reed Abelson of the NYT quoted Craig Garthwaite, a health economist at Northwestern’s Kellogg School of Management, on integration: Critics’ corner • Brooke Sutherland and Max Nisen write, “Steady diversification with small deals is the kind of strategy that can win this race.” (Gadfly) • Charley Grant writes, “With cheap credit readily available and UnitedHealth’s sparkling long-term returns as an inducement, the recipe for succeeding in health care is pretty clear.” (Heard on the Street) Extra credit: Barclays and Goldman Sachs will each lend CVS $20 billion as part of the Aetna takeover, the kind of big deal lending that was traditionally the province of JPMorgan Chase, according to the WSJ. A lot is still being changed. And not everything is going well. While Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is open to keeping more generous state and local tax deductions, a deal with Senator Susan Collins of Maine to help prop up the Affordable Care Act has been all but rejected by House Republicans, potentially jeopardizing her final vote. Meanwhile, Republicans are looking at cuts to social welfare programs like Social Security, Medicaid and Medicare to help pay for the bill — unpopular moves that would come ahead of the 2018 midterm elections. “Holy crap, what’s this?”: That’s what Greg Jenner, a former top tax official in George W. Bush’s Treasury Department, said of the tax legislation to Politico, describing how the new rules could be gamed. How the business world is responding Some analysts increasingly see no reason for investors to put more money into the stock market because of the tax legislation, since companies probably won’t spend as much on buybacks as people think. Meanwhile, Citigroup says that it expects a $20 billion hit to its profits under the proposal, though it still plans to return some $60 billion to investors over the next three years. But one of the private equity world’s biggest moguls is OK with the bill: The Washington flyaround · House Republican leaders believe they have the votes to avert a government shutdown. (Politico) · Behind President Trump’s decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel: frustration from supporters like Sheldon Adelson. (NYT) · Michael Flynn told a former business associate that economic sanctions would be “ripped up” in the Trump administration’s first days, according to a whistle-blower. (NYT) · Senator Elizabeth Warren is in the same camp as Mr. Trump on megadeals, an alliance that puts more pressure on big mergers. (Breakingviews) Spats like the one between Alphabet and Amazon — in which YouTube was pulled from Amazon’s Fire TV and Echo Show devices, and Amazon then appeared to stop selling Alphabet’s Nest devices — highlight a rise in the stakes as these companies battle for consumers’ minds and money. It’s consumers who may lose out, the media analyst Dan Rayburn told the WaPo. But Shira Ovide of Gadfly thinks that, in at least one case, tech companies should do more backbiting. She’s urging Twitter and Snapchat to team up against Facebook: Who hacked Uber? A 20-year-old Florida man appears to have led the breach that resulted in the theft of millions of riders’ data — and then have been paid to keep quiet, according to Reuters. Alexa, run my life: Katherine Bindley of the WSJ tried to see how much of her life she could outsource to Amazon products and services. Among her conclusions: “No matter how well the Echo Look functions, posing for it every morning is stressful.” • Time named “the silence breakers” — women and men who spoke about harassment and assaults they suffered from powerful men — as its person of the year. (NYT) • Democratic senators including Chuck Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand of New York have called upon Al Franken to resign. He could announce his plans to step down today. (The Hill) • Six women have filed a class-action lawsuit against the Weinstein brothers and several business associates. (NYT) • The venture capitalist Justin Caldbeck, who has been accused of misconduct, tweeted support for #MeToo. It didn’t go over well. (Quartz) It wasn’t a famous art collector like Steve Cohen who paid $450.3 million at auction last month for “Salvator Mundi.” It was a little-known Saudi prince with no history as a major art buyer, Bader bin Abdullah bin Mohammed bin Farhan al-Saud. From David Kirkpatrick of the NYT: And it’s still rising. That has Wall Street keeping a close eye on the digital currency and associated technologies like the blockchain. But Bitcoin is being hoarded like virtual gold, and that has downsides. Here’s what Brian Armstrong of Coinbase told the NYT: The N.F.L. finally agreed to give him a new $200 million deal, though nearly all that money is tied to financial targets. Something of an uneasy peace has descended upon the league’s owners: Jerry Jones of the Dallas Cowboys had briefly threatened to sue over the negotiations. More from Ken Belson of the NYT: Caveat: The N.F.L. is far from in the clear. Ratings are still falling, critics are still worried about player safety and some fans are still incensed about player protests. • Fraser Robinson, the top Uber deal maker who negotiated the company’s investment from Saudi Arabia last year, has stepped down. (FT) — Shari Redstone, in an email to Viacom associates, referring to Philippe Dauman, her main rival for control of her father’s Viacom media empire. Each weekday, DealBook reporters in New York and London offer commentary and analysis on the day’s most important business news. Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up. You can find live updates of DealBook coverage throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook. Follow Andrew Ross Sorkin @andrewrsorkin, Michael J. de la Merced @m_delamerced and Amie Tsang @amietsang on Twitter. We’d love your feedback as we experiment with the writing, format and design of this briefing. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.