  Good Friday. Here’s what we’re watching: • Does Amazon have its shipping costs under control? • What will come out of the Merkel-Trump meeting? • Why Deutsche Bank was so late to make necessary cuts. • More complaints have emerged about NBC News’s response to harassment allegations. Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here. Amazon’s shipping costs have suddenly become a hot subject, not just to President Trump, but also to the 100 million people who have Amazon Prime. Higher shipping costs are a reason Amazon is raising the cost of Prime membership to $119 a year from $99. But a 20 percent hike is a lot for even a popular service, and it could turn customers off. So why did Amazon do it? The e-commerce giant’s results provide some clues. Members of Prime get free shipping, though their membership fees partially pay for that perk. As the Prime program covers more goods, it’s getting more expensive for Amazon. “Our two-day shipping, it’s now available on over 100 million items, up from 20 million as recently as 2014,” Brian T. Olsavsky, Amazon’s C.F.O., said on a conference call Thursday when announcing the increase in the Prime membership fee. The cost pressures from shipping are getting uncomfortable for Amazon. Worldwide shipping costs totaled $6.1 billion in the first quarter of this year, equivalent to 22.5 percent of Amazon’s sales from its online stores during the period. That’s up from 2017, when quarterly shipping costs averaged 19.9 percent of online sales. By bringing shipping costs back down to 20 percent of online sales, Amazon could, in theory, save over $2.5 billion a year (2.5 percent of annualized first-quarter sales comes to roughly $2.8 billion.) To save money, Amazon could offer free shipping on fewer goods, but that could undermine the company’s efforts to bolster sales. And Amazon doesn’t need to do that if it can increase its Prime fees, to help recoup the higher shipping costs. But the fee increase may not be enough. Charging 100 million Prime members an extra $20 per year, in theory, raises “only“ $2 billion. - Peter Eavis The German chancellor is meeting with President Trump today, in an 11th-hour attempt to avoid a U.S.-Europe trade battle. European leaders are feeling pessimistic about that. (After all, President Emmanuel Macron of France didn’t seem to manage it, and he’s a Trump favorite.) More on her challenge, from the NYT: Or as a former State Department official told the NYT, “Merkel is going to Washington and it looks like the U.S. just doesn’t care.” But a foreign relations expert said, “Never underestimate Merkel.” In related news: Oleg Deripaska hopes European governments can convince the U.S. to ease sanctions on his aluminum producer, Rusal. Sprint and T-Mobile are in advanced discussions about merging, and a deal could be announced as soon as this weekend, people briefed on the matter said on Friday. A combination of the two companies would complete one of the telecommunications industry’s most long-awaited transactions and would create the third-largest wireless carrier in the United States, with more than 127 million customers. Sprint and T-Mobile have tried to negotiate a merger twice before. Analysts have argued, and Sprint and T-Mobile themselves have acknowledged, that the companies need greater scale and more resources to better compete against the industry’s leaders, Verizon and AT&amp;T. Should the deal be completed, only three companies would dominate the market in the United States for cellphone service. It is unclear whether the transaction would get regulatory approval. A previous round of merger talks ended in 2014, having drawn strong opposition from the Obama administration. — Michael de la Merced The hedge fund mogul had been a 21st Century Fox director since 2015, but didn’t say why he was leaving, according to a joint statement by his firm, ValueAct Capital, and the company. (He did add that he supports the $52.4 billion sale of Fox assets to Disney.) What Mr. Ubben had to say: “The management and board of FOX has done a superb job of steering the company through a time of transition for the entertainment industry.” What Rupert and Lachlan Murdoch had to say: “Jeff has been an important partner during a transformational period. Our board and, ultimately, our shareholders, have benefited enormously from his many contributions.” — Michael de la Merced Economic growth cooled during the first quarter, offering a preliminary glance at how last year’s sweeping package of tax cuts is affecting consumers and businesses this year. The economy grew at an annual rate of 2.3 percent for the first three months of 2018. The pace was below the 2.9 percent annualized rate recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017, but equal to the performance for all of last year. It also falls short of President Trump’s goal of at least 3 percent. • Consumer spending rose 1.1 percent, its smallest gain since 2013. • Nonresidential fixed investment — what businesses spend on equipment, software, buildings and intellectual property — increased at a solid 6.1 percent. • Business spending on equipment climbed 4.7 percent, down from 11.6 percent in the fourth quarter. • Employment cost index rose 0.8 percent. Bigger picture Economists on Wall Street and in Washington have repeatedly warned that the economy’s upward streak is unlikely to extend beyond the next year or two. Over the longer term, the Fed expects real annual growth in the United States to fall to 1.8 percent. The Congressional Budget Office’s 10-year outlook comes to the same disappointing conclusion. The nation’s debt has topped $21 trillion and is growing, a level many view as unsustainable. And if the Federal Reserve follows through on its plan to raise interest rates, the cost of paying off that debt will grow larger. Yesterday’s announcement by the German lender that it was retrenching was a long time coming — too long, for many critics. Peter Eavis has some potential reasons it decided to retreat so late in the game: • Hubris: Unlike rivals, Deutsche Bank didn’t raise capital after the financial crisis, ultimately leaving it significantly weaker. By the end of last year, its tangible equity capital ratio was still below JPMorgan Chase in 2011. (Perhaps Germany’s banking regulator should have applied more pressure, as Switzerland’s did.) • Fear: Did Deutsche Bank’s leaders worry about scaling back the investment bank because of its huge importance for revenue? (Last year, it provided 54 percent.) And about the cost of unwinding some trades? Who could benefit from Deutsche’s pullback? JPMorgan, Bank of America and Citigroup on the debt side, and Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan on the equity side, according to analysts at Keefe, Bruyette &amp; Woods. The news organization asserted that the complaints that led to Matt Lauer being ousted from the “Today” show were the first of their kind. Others disagree: • Ann Curry told the WaPo that she had approached NBC News’s management team after a female staff member said Mr. Lauer had sexually harassed her. A company spokesman disputed this. • Linda Vester, a former correspondent, told Variety that she had been sexually harassed by Tom Brokaw. He denied the accusation. What NBC News has done: Brought in a consultant for in-person sexual harassment prevention seminars and pledged to share the results of an internal review. Elsewhere in sexual harassment: Women who have sued Uber saying its drivers sexually assaulted them have asked the company’s board to release them from arbitration agreements. • Under questioning on Capitol Hill, Scott Pruitt deflected questions about E.P.A. scandals, leaving many observers to think he may keep his job. (NYT) • Budget deficits could prompt the Treasury Department to increase U.S. government borrowing, further pushing up yields. (Bloomberg) • A former federal judge, Barbara Jones, was appointed as special master to oversee the review of materials seized from Michael Cohen. Mr. Trump distanced himself from Mr. Cohen’s legal troubles, while conceding it was him being represented in the Stormy Daniels matter. The Senate Judiciary Committee advanced a bill to protect Robert Mueller. The federal prosecutor leading the Cohen investigation is Thomas McKay, 32. • The leading candidate in Mexico’s presidential race wants to cut ties between the U.S. and Mexican energy industries. (NYT) • The Senate confirmed the White House’s nominee for head of the F.T.C., Joseph Simons, as well as four commissioners. (Bloomberg) The online video giant has largely avoided the political heat that has burned Facebook, but it has still lurched from crisis to crisis, particularly over upsetting videos. Bloomberg Businessweek took a visit to its complex in San Bruno, Calif., to discuss its plans for avoiding a turn in the public stocks. It’s hiring many more moderators, but with a longer-term goal: Today at Facebook: The chief technology officer, Mike Schroepfer, faced hours of questioning from British lawmakers yesterday — and they still want to talk to Mark Zuckerberg. Facebook’s annual developer conference looks less festive this year. Roger McNamee, an early investor in Facebook, thinks the company needs the sort of regulation that kept AT&amp;T in one piece in the 1950s. Elsewhere in tech: Tesla shareholders will vote on whether to hire an independent chairman. The European Commission has proposed transparency rules for search rankings. • Amazon’s doubled its profit in the first quarter, and said it would raise the price of Prime membership to $119 a year from $99. It’s growing into something harder to manage, says Jennifer Saba of Breakingviews — and something fundamentally more profitable, says Shira Ovide of Gadfly. • Microsoft’s profit jumped 35 percent. Its secret was “dullness and durability,” says Rob Cyran of Breakingviews. • Intel’s profit surged 50 percent, helped by sales of server chips and other data center equipment. Sure, there’s logic to it, in the face of the threat from Netflix and Amazon. But as the two companies continue to bicker over price and executive chairs, is there another reason Shari Redstone is pushing the idea so hard, when other CBS shareholders seem uninterested? According to Bill Cohan of Vanity Fair, she’s getting back at her father, Sumner: • A Walmart deal for a majority stake in Flipkart, at a roughly $20 billion valuation, is expected soon. (NYT) • Could Sprint and T-Mobile announce a merger as early as next week? (Reuters) • Stacey Snider, the chairwoman of 20th Century Fox, struck an elegiac tone for her movie studio as its parent company works to sell it and other assets to Disney. (NYT) • AT&amp;T and Time Warner have spent $1.4 billion in fees on their proposed deal. (WSJ) • WeWork is selling $702 million worth of junk bonds. The deal was a sign of resilience in the high-yield debt markets. Axios dove into the company’s new financial metric, “community adjusted Ebitda.” • Sequoia Capital has raised $6 billion for what’s now the biggest U.S.-based venture fund. (WSJ) • K.K.R. is reportedly setting up a social impact investment fund. (Reuters) • Dosh, a start-up that helps companies offer consumers cashback deals, raised $44 million from investors like PayPal. (VentureBeat) • Michael Zeisser, Alibaba’s top deal maker in Silicon Valley, has left, reportedly over disagreements with the vice chairman, Joe Tsai. (Recode) • Britain’s takeover panel has appointed Simon Lindsay, Citigroup’s head of British M.&amp;A., as its next director-general. (FT) • The owner of the Jacksonville Jaguars, Shahid Khan, offered to buy the English national soccer stadium, Wembley. (NYT) • MoviePass says everything is fine now. Some of its customers don’t believe that. (NYT) • The S.E.C. penalized the private equity firm Welsh, Carson, Anderson &amp; Stowe for failing to disclose a conflict of interest. (WSJ) • The law world is buzzing over the departure of another senior partner at Cravath, Swaine &amp; Moore for the disruptive Kirkland &amp; Ellis: She’s getting $11 million a year, plus a signing bonus. (NYT) • The gallery owner David Zwirner said he would pay more to be at art fairs if it helped smaller galleries take part. (NYT) • Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have been supporting the market for rental housing, raising questions about competition. (FT) We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.