  Good Friday. Here’s what we’re watching: • Procter &amp; Gamble has appointed Nelson Peltz to its board. • Help Wanted: Crisis PR firm for Kushner. • The G.O.P. wants Marco Rubio’s vote. • How the media landscape has changed. • What will Rupert Murdoch do next? Want this in your inbox every morning? Here’s the sign-up. Procter &amp; Gamble has appointed the activist investor Nelson Peltz to its board following a certified recount of shareholder votes cast at its annual meeting in October, Reuters reported. The decision seems to bring an end to the most expensive corporate proxy battle in history — and one of the craziest. At its annual shareholder meeting two months ago, Procter &amp; Gamble said its preliminary count of proxy votes showed that it had fended off an effort by Mr. Peltz to win a seat on its board. But last month, Trian Fund Management, the investment firm controlled by Mr. Peltz, announced that a vote count by the independent inspector of elections showed that he had, in fact, been elected. Procter &amp; Gamble waited to make Mr. Peltz a director while it looked into the election results from the independent election inspector IVS Associates. Republican lawmakers seem to have secured enough votes to pass their tax overhaul. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida said Friday he would vote yes after winning a more generous child tax credit in the final bill and Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, who voted against the initial Senate bill over deficit concerns, said he would support the legislation despite the cost of the tax cuts. The markets, which have risen and fallen with the fate of the tax bill in recent weeks, rose Friday as passage looked more certain. • The Standard &amp; Poor’s 500 index, Dow Jones industrial average and Nasdaq closed at records. • The Russell 2000 jumped 1.6 percent, its best day since Nov. 16, according to Bloomberg. • The dollar rose for the ninth time in 10 sessions. Jared Kushner’s legal team is looking for a crisis public relations firm. The Washington Post reports that Abbe Lowell, Mr. Kushner’s lawyer, has in the past two weeks called at least two crisis public relations firm. In a statement to the Post, Mr. Lowell “confirmed he was looking for a firm that would handle media for all high-profile clients that receive attention from the press.” Mr. Lowell’s other high profile clients include Senator Robert Menendez from New Jersey. His corruption trial ended in a mistrial last month after jurors said they were unable to reach a verdict. The question is whether any of usual suspects among Wall Street’s crisis management world will take this on? Here are some of the firms: Hiltzik Strategies (The firm that represented Kushner’s family real estate company.) Sitrick and Co. (Harvey Weinstein hired the firm earlier this fall.) Joele Frank Brunswick Group Abernathy MacGregor Sard Verbinnen Gladstone Place Partners Rubenstein And it seems they got it. Earlier Friday, Republicans had included a last-minute change to expand the child care tax credit so that it benefits more low-income Americans. The move was done to win back the support of Mr. Rubio, who on Thursday said he would not vote for the bill without a more generous provision. Mr. Rubio, in a tweet on Friday, called it “a solid step” and suggested he would now vote for the bill. Here are the details from The New York Times’s Jim Tankersley and Thomas Kaplan report. The news pushed stocks higher Friday on optimism the tax legislation would be enacted. Stocks have risen and fallen in recent weeks on the prospects for the tax bill. On Friday, the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard &amp; Poor’s 500 index were up 0.6 percent and 0.9 percent, respectively. The Russell 2000 index is up 1.5 percent in recent trading. The index is made up of small-cap stocks, which typically have a higher effective tax rate than their larger brethren. For that reason, the index has been particularly sensitive to the likelihood the tax bill will pass. Extra credit: This NYT graphic illustrates which states could be hurt when federal funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program starts to run out next month. With Disney’s bid for a large portion of 21st Century Fox, four of the five biggest deals have been announced in the past three years. The pursuit of scale has driven the deal making. Telecom, cable and media companies all want to get bigger to better compete with the likes of Apple, Google-parent Alphabet, Amazon and Netflix. That dynamic got us to wondering: How has the competitive landscape of media change during the past decade? To help answer that question, at least partially, we asked Thomson Reuters for the 100 biggest companies by market value at the start of 2007 and today. Here’s a look at the biggest telecom, cable, and media companies then and now as well as the tech firms they are up against. 200721. Alphabet, $141 billion 22. AT&amp;T, $137 billion 28. Verizon, $109 billion 31. 21st Century Fox, $91 billion 34. Comcast, $88 billion 35. Time Warner, $87 billion 43. Apple, $73 billion 46. Walt Disney, $71 billion 99. Viacom, $29 billion 20171. Apple, $885 billion2. Alphabet, $727 billion4. Amazon, $560 billion5. Facebook, $518 billion15. AT&amp;T, $234 billion20. Verizon, $216 billion27. Comcast, $180 billion32. Disney, $163 billion77. Netflix, $81 billion94. 21st Century Fox, $60 billion A few notes: Amazon and Netflix were not among the 100 biggest U.S. companies by market value in 2007, and Facebook had not gone public. At the start of 2007, Apple had yet to release the iPhone, which has proved to be quite the game changer. The media tycoon has received accolades from all corners for yesterday’s deal to sell the bulk of his 21st Century Fox to The Walt Disney Company — including from President Trump himself. (More on that in a moment.) But what will Mr. Murdoch’s next act look like? For now, it appears to be a doubling down on the business nearest and dearest to his heart, the news. Here’s what Mr. Murdoch told analysts on a call yesterday: That may also mean acquisitions: His son Lachlan suggested on that call that while the new Fox would initially focus on Fox News and live sports, it may explore other ways to grow. What if another suitor comes calling? Andrew has heard that in the media world, speculation is rising that someone else might come in to top Disney’s offer — perhaps a combination of a buyers that would split up Fox assets. There’s little to prevent that from happening: yesterday’s deal has a $1.5 billion breakup fee if a higher bid emerges, and Disney has only customary matching rights. But how much better would that rival offer need to be? Comcast had offered more than Disney, but the Murdochs believed that Disney — whose stock trades at a higher earnings multiple and was likely to go higher as a result of the deal — was a better bet, Michael has heard. Keep these in mind • About Mr. Trump’s apparent support for the deal: Several antitrust experts said that the Fox transaction would represent significant concentration of market power. (NYT, CNN) • Robert Iger of Disney could receive as much as $142 million worth of stock at the current share price. (WSJ) • Will Hulu, the online streaming service that would be majority-owned by Disney after the deal grow — or shrink? (LAT, Recode) Critics’ corner • Tara Lachapelle writes, “As for the Murdochs, there must be a master plan that they aren’t sharing yet.” (Gadfly) • Elizabeth Winkler writes, “Yet Disney’s brand is powerful around the world. The deal is a bet that it will be able to unlock more value from Sky and Star than Fox has.” (Heard on the Street) • Joe Nocera writes, “I hate to be the skunk at the garden party, but Iger better hope this deal isn’t his legacy.” (Bloomberg View) • Lex (going overboard on “Star Wars” allusions) writes, “M. &amp; A. can do nothing to help incumbents if trustbusters still see disruptive competition as being far, far away, as it was a long time ago.” (Lex) • A. G. Sulzberger will become the NYT’s publisher on Jan. 1, as his father, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., steps down from that role. The elder Mr. Sulzberger will remain chairman of The New York Times Company. (NYT) • Sinclair is likely to win the Justice Department’s blessing to buy Tribune Media — so long as it sells roughly a dozen TV stations, according to unidentified people. (WSJ) • “Business Insider Inc.” is dead. Meet “Insider Inc.” (WSJ) Unilever said on Friday that it had agreed to sell its spreads business to the private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts for 6.8 billion euros, or about $8 billion. The consumer products giant said it would sell the spreads business in April as part of a plan to restructure the company and reassure investors after fellow food giant Kraft Heinz withdrew a $143 billion takeover bid this year. The spreads business, which includes the margarine brands Country Crock, Flora and I Can’t Believe It’s Not Butter, had €3 billion in sales last year. It does not include Hellmann’s mayonnaise or Marmite. The takeover is subject to regulatory approval and employee consultations and is expected to be completed in mid-2018. — Chad Bray Among those seeking to challenge the F.C.C., which voted yesterday to repeal the Obama-era regulations: • Several Democratic lawmakers • Democratic state attorneys general, including Eric T. Schneiderman of New York • Advocacy groups like Public Knowledge and the Internet Association, which represents tech companies like Google and Facebook The F.C.C. chairman Ajit Pai, who mocked criticism of his net neutrality stance in an absurdist video (that featured him in a Santa outfit and, later, swinging a lightsaber), vigorously defended the repeal before the vote. “We are helping consumers and promoting competition,” he said. How Jim Chanos might trade on the F.C.C.’s move He said that he was looking at entertainment providers like Netflix and raised the question of whether net neutrality would affect their business. Here’s what he told CNBC yesterday: Unilever said on Friday that it had agreed to sell its spreads business to the private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts for 6.8 billion euros, or about $8 billion. The consumer products giant said it would sell the spreads business in April as part of a plan to restructure the company and reassure investors after fellow food giant Kraft Heinz withdrew a $143 billion takeover bid this year. long term The spreads business, which includes the margarine brands Country Crock, Flora and I Can’t Believe It’s Not Butter, had €3 billion in sales last year. It does not include Hellmann’s mayonnaise or Marmite. The takeover is subject to regulatory approval and employee consultations and is expected to be completed in mid-2018. — Chad Bray Amid his ongoing battle against accusations of sexual misconduct and harassment, the venture capitalist said that he had left Sherpa Capital to focus on fighting “the smear campaign” against him. The investor has made noises about a lot of legal defenses, including by suing a political opposition research shop that he has accused of trying to besmirch his reputation. More in sexual misconduct news • Representative Blake Farenthold, Republican of Texas, said that he won’t run for re-election as he faced accusations of sexual harassment and of fostering a frat-house atmosphere in his office. (NYT) • Thousands of Interior Department employees reported experiencing harassment or intimidation at work, a problem that Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke said was “a breach of public trust” that he vowed to fix. (NYT) • Alex Kozinski, a well-known federal judge accused of harassing female clerks and staff members over the years, should resign, the NYT editorial board has argued. (NYT) Amid news reports about China exerting its power around the world in  more aggressive ways — including reportedly paying off politicians in other countries — the Economist this week says the West should push back. More from the Economist’s lead editorial: A beleaguered Chinese conglomerate soldiers on Goldman Sachs and Bank of America won’t work with it anymore. Investors are starting to feel spooked. But HNA is still doing deals — with help from its country’s lenders. Several Chinese lenders have indicated that they could extend HNA’s credit lines despite concerns that the conglomerate has spent too much on foreign acquisitions, at least according to HNA. The China flyaround • China’s venture capital community has a problem: It’s overcrowded. (WSJ) • Huawei and Xiaomi are in talks with wireless operators in the U.S. about selling flagship smartphones there as soon as next year. (Bloomberg) • Elliott Management is preparing for a potential fight with Hess, with the aim of either removing the oil company’s C.E.O. or pushing him to consider selling all or part of the company. (WSJ) • Platinum Equity is in advanced talks to buy Husky Injection Molding Systems for about $4 billion including debt, according to unidentified people. (Reuters) • The maker of generic drugs Perrigo is preparing an indicative offer for the $4.7 billion consumer health unit of Merck of Germany. (Reuters) • The snack company Snyder’s-Lance is considering a potential sale after being approached by Campbell Soup, according to unidentified people. (CNBC) Exhibit A Exhibit B Behind the stock move: Apparently traders thought that the C.E.O. of Twitter meeting with the C.E.O. of Goldman Sachs might mean that the social networking company was looking to sell itself. A splash of cold water: Twitter’s chief, Jack Dorsey, has been a guest at Goldman gatherings before. A Twitter spokeswoman said that Lloyd Blankfein was at the tech company’s offices for a Q. &amp; A. with prominent users. • Deutsche Bank flagged about $30 million in potentially suspicious transactions as part of an internal investigation into its role as a conduit for money involving Paul Manafort, according to an unidentified person. (WSJ) • The yield curve, the differential between two-year and 10-year Treasury note yields, has been shrinking and that has unnerved economists and investors. (WSJ) • OPEC and the International Energy Agency, the two biggest oil organizations in the world, have divergent views on what will happen in 2018 to the glut of oil that has depressed crude prices. (Bloomberg) • Teva Pharmaceuticals said it would cut about a quarter of its work force, or about 14,000 jobs, close manufacturing and research facilities, and suspend its dividend in an effort to simplify its structure and reduce its debt. • Global inequality has stabilized after widening for decades, but it won’t stay that way for long. (NYT) • The National Labor Relations Board overturned a key Obama-era doctrine that gave workers significant leverage in challenging the labor practices of companies like fast-food and hotel chains. (NYT) • Koch Industries announced an early-stage V.C. firm called Koch Disruptive Technologies that will be led by Chase Koch, the son of Charles Koch. (Axios) • N.P. Narvekar, the new investment chief at Harvard’s endowment, pushed to cut the value of some investments last year and would have gone further, but met resistance from other board members, according to unidentified people. (WSJ) • Wall Street banks including Bank of America and Citigroup are facing potential losses of more than 1 billion euros, or nearly $1.2 billion, on loans made to Christo Wiese, the billionaire backer of Steinhoff International. (FT) • Executives at Guggenheim Partners are working to quell client concerns about an ongoing examination by U.S. securities regulators. (Reuters) Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up. You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook. Follow Andrew @andrewrsorkin, Michael @m_delamerced and Amie @amietsang on Twitter. We’d love your feedback as we experiment with the writing, format and design of this briefing. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.