  Good Monday. Here’s what we’re watching: • We’ve been parsing Warren Buffett’s annual letter to shareholders. • Stock investors beware: Inflation could soon jump. • Broadcom moves closer to striking a deal with Qualcomm, but the two remain far apart on price. • The Weinstein Company will file for bankruptcy. • Fidelity is rethinking its stock-picker system. • Businesses are reconsidering their relationships with the gun industry. • United Parcel Service has sued the European Commission after it blocked a 2013 deal for the Dutch delivery company TNT Express, which was later bought by its shipping rival FedEx. Want this in your inbox every morning? Sign up here. Warren Buffett's annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway’s shareholders, released on Saturday, showed that the company had substantially increased its holdings of Apple stock. The wager has done pretty well already. Berkshire Hathaway started gobbling up Apple stock just over a year ago. At the end of last year, its Apple position had a market value of $28.2 billion, according to the letter. The position cost Berkshire $21 billion, the letter said, which suggests a gain of $7.2 billion, or over 30 percent. The bet also outperformed a soaring stock market. In the past 12 months, Apple stock is up 31 percent, versus 17 percent for the Standard &amp; Poor’s 500 index. What do the numbers say now? Apple, by some metrics, looks cheap. Its price-to-earnings ratio, a valuation yardstick that compares a company’s per-share profits to its stock price, is 15.5 times forecasted earnings for 2018. Facebook’s stock is at 26 times, Google is at 27 times, and Amazon is at a dizzying 184 times. Apple’s ratio is even smaller than the overall market’s. The bullish theory: Apple’s stock price will keep rising as investors come to see that it is undervalued. But shouldn’t investors have realized this years ago? Apple, after all, is a famous company, and investors have long been aware of its fat profit margins, its grip on consumers and its ability to generate billions of dollars of cash flow. But Apple is unimpressive in a way that often worries investors: It is a slower growing company. Google, Facebook and Amazon are all expected to increase their sales at a significantly faster clip than the 10 percent that Apple achieved in 2017. It would take a large number of additional iPhone sales, at higher prices, for Apple to have the sales growth of Google. And for premium priced products in a saturated market, generating higher sales can be tough, as weak demand for Apple’s iPhone X shows. Could investors become more bullish? It’s hard to know exactly why investors become willing to pay a lot more for certain companies. Amazon’s share price is up over 160 percent over the past two years, a period when business was strong, but not markedly stronger than investors expected. Sometimes the herd just changes its mind. And there are plenty of ways in which Apple excels. Speaking to CNBC on Monday, Mr. Buffett enthused about one. Once consumers own, say, an iPhone, they have a tendency to stay loyal to Apple products. “You are very, very, very locked in, at least psychologically and mentally, to the product you are using,” he said. — Peter Eavis With the stock market regaining much of the ground it lost after its steep sell-off earlier this month, it might seem like investors are done worrying about higher inflation. They may want to keep fretting, though. James W. Paulsen, a stock market strategist at the Leuthold Group, put out some new research on Monday that suggests that the inflation rate, 2.1 percent in January, could move a lot higher in coming months. Economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York calculate a metric that draws on both economic and financial data to try and assess the amount of inflation that is brewing in the economy. One version of the New York Fed’s “underlying inflation gauge” rose by 3 percent in January. Mr. Paulsen took historical data for this yardstick and found that, in the past, it was quite a good predictor of actual inflation. “Although not perfect and while the lead/lag relationship varies over time, the underlying inflation gauge has done a good job of forecasting future movements in the core inflation rate during the next 18 months,” he wrote. If this relationship holds up, inflation could be 2.6 percent by the end of this year, and 3 percent by the middle of 2019, Mr. Paulsen wrote. Of course, the relationship might break down in the near future. Higher inflation would lead to higher bond yields (bond investors require a larger payout to protect themselves against inflation.) In turn, the higher bond yields would make stocks look more expensive (why pay up for stocks when bond payments are increasing in value?) As a result, stocks could sell off, if the yields on bellwether bonds like the 10-year Treasury note keeps spiking. On Monday, the 10-year Treasury yield dipped to 2.86 percent, from 2.87 percent on Friday. Stocks moved higher. The Standard &amp; Poor’s 500 index closed up 1.2 percent and is now just 3.2 percent off the high it reached just before its plunge at the start of this month. — Peter Eavis But the two remain far apart on price. On Monday, Qualcomm’s board in a letter to Hock Tan, Broadcom’s chief executive, said the two sides have made progress addressing Qualcomm’s regulatory concerns and proposed the two companies hold a meeting that focuses on negotiating the price. From the statement accompanying the letter: But So what price is Qualcomm pushing for? The FT reports that “Qualcomm is insisting that Broadcom raises its offer by at least 15 percent to above $90 per share, up from its current $79 per share bid.” Republican politicians in Georgia, where Delta Air Lines is headquartered, are hitting back at the company, reports Leslie Josephs of CNBC. Lt. Gov. Casey Cagle tweeted: Rick Jeffares, a candidate for lieutenant governor and former Georgia state senator, weighed in with: Writes Ms. Josephs: He certainly sees the need. In his annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway’s shareholders, Mr. Buffett said: But will he have the opportunity? Mr. Buffett bemoaned the sky-high purchase prices that “proved a barrier to virtually all deals we reviewed in 2017.” Critics’ corner • Tara Lachapelle of Bloomberg Gadfly writes: “The best way Buffett can solidify his legacy is by returning to the M&amp;A market with the same force and determination he’s always shown. He may need to pay more than he wants to, but what’s a little extra to Berkshire in the long run?” • Mr. Buffett is on the wrong side of a generational shift, writes John Foley in Breakingviews. In contrast, BlackRock and Vanguard have waded in and called for companies to do good. That attitude is already baked into the Buffett view, Mr. Foley writes, “But notions of what’s now referred to as ESG — environmental, social and governance factors — are otherwise fuzzy in Berkshire’s universe.” Other highlights from the letter • Berkshire’s windfall of $29.6 billion from the U.S. tax overhaul was only slightly offset by $1.4 billion of tax payments on repatriated earnings. Mr. Buffett did not expand on his recent criticisms of tax cuts. Read more about what he did focus on here. • Mr. Buffett railed against a new accounting rule that will affect future quarterly and annual reports. The change requires companies to include in earnings the gains and losses on stocks they hold but have not sold. Because Berkshire holds $170 billion of stocks, the impact on Berkshire’s bottom line could be significant. Peter Eavis of The Times notes: Related Michael Kives, a longtime Hollywood agent at Creative Artists Agency who has consulted and represented Mr. Buffett — as well as Mikhail Gorbachev, Katy Perry and Jessica Alba, among others — is striking out on his own with a new firm, K5. It will provide advisory services for companies “across media, sports, technology, finance, politics, and a variety of other industries,” according to an announcement expected to go out later today. United Parcel Service has sued European antitrust regulators for a decision they made five years ago that blocked its takeover of the Dutch delivery company TNT Express, according to a record of court proceedings published on Monday. U.P.S. had pursued the TNT merger in the hope of gaining a larger presence in Europe and in emerging markets, but European officials rejected it because of concerns that the transaction would decrease competition and increase prices. The General Court of the European Union annulled the decision by European Commission regulators last year, in part because the commission had used different economic models at different times to evaluate the deal. The commission, the executive arm of the European Union, has appealed that ruling to Europe’s highest court. Facing a deadline to seek damages, U.P.S. filed a claim in December seeking 1.74 billion euros, or about $2.14 billion, plus interest, according to a notice published on Monday. U.P.S. is also seeking court costs and compensation for any taxes it may have to pay on the damage amount. U.P.S. agreed to acquire TNT in a transaction valued at $6.8 billion in March 2012, but European regulators said they would block the deal because they were worried that a merger would effectively leave the Continent’s shipping market with just two main players: U.P.S. and DHL. U.P.S. withdrew its offer in January 2013. A shipping rival, FedEx Corporation, agreed to acquire TNT in a $4.8 billion deal in 2015, completing the deal after receiving approval from European regulators the next year. — Chad Bray Talks about a sale to a group led by Maria Contreras-Sweet have collapsed. The group had offered to pay about $275 million for the company, plus the assumption of $225 million in debt. The Weinstein board blamed Ms. Contreras-Sweet and one of her primary backers, Ron Burkle. “Late last night, you returned to us an incomplete document that unfortunately does not keep your promises,” it said in a letter. “That is regrettable, but not in our power to change.” The board, which includes Bob Weinstein, accused Ms. Contreras-Sweet’s team of failing to provide funding to keep the studio operating while the deal was completed and said she had proposed new sale conditions that meant the transaction would take much longer to close. The mutual fund giant is considering abandoning the investment process that made its managers famous, unnamed sources told the WSJ. The context  The change comes after an outside review of behavior within the stock-picking unit and reports of sexual harassment allegations. More from the WSJ’s Sarah Krouse and Kirsten Grind: Blackstone asked outside fund managers to detail their ownership in companies that make or sell guns by Sunday evening, according to unnamed sources that spoke to the WSJ. Bank of America said it was examining its relationship with the weapons industry, too. And Best Western, Delta Air Lines, MetLife, Symantec and United Airlines joined the ranks of companies cutting ties to the N.R.A. Here’s the list of companies that have distanced themselves so far. The response to the Florida school shooting has happened faster than after previous mass attacks, partly because the survivors are teenagers well versed in the power of social media, The NYT’s Julie Creswell and Tiffany Hsu report. What does this mean for corporate social responsibility? • Mike Allen of Axios: “Be it guns or global warming, a fascinating trend is unfolding in the Trump era: Corporations, under intense social pressure, are filling a void left by governmental gridlock or avoidance.” • Brooke Masters of The FT: “Wading into America’s fundamental divide on gun rights, even in the wake of a tragic school shooting, was probably not the way most chief executives expected to respond to the new enthusiasm for corporate social responsibility. There are big risks involved.” More on gun control • Lawmakers return to Washington today under pressure to break the decades-long inertia on the issue. (NYT) • Thousands turned up for a gun show in Tampa, Fla. One seller of body armor said most of his sales had been to teachers, school administrators and “parents who are scared to death.” (NYT) The rush by Republicans in Congress to overhaul U.S. tax law before the end of last year has complicated planning for individual taxpayers. And things could grow more uncertain as fights are expected over the changes, The NYT’s Jim Tankersley reports. Here’s Jeffrey C. LeSage, vice chairman for the Americas of KPMG’s tax practice: The Washington flyaround  • President Trump’s legal team is examining potential routes to provide testimony to the special counsel, including giving written answers to his questions, according to unnamed sources. (WSJ) • The House Intelligence Committee has released a redacted Democratic memo rebutting claims by Republicans that top officials at the Justice Department and the F.B.I. abused their power in the Russia investigation. (NYT) The Chinese Communist Party announced that it intended to abolish term limits on the presidency. The move has injected new uncertainty into international politics, NYT’s Jane Perlez and Javier Hernández report. The plan could also exacerbate a tense relationship between Beijing and Washington, which is preparing plans to impose tariffs on Chinese imports and to limit Chinese investments in the U.S. Critics’ corner • Christopher Beddor of Breakingviews: “Opaque as it is, international companies and investment firms had grown accustomed to the rules of the Chinese political game as it has been played for two decades. It is rapidly evolving into something new. They should not brush this aside as mere politics.” The China flyaround  • Li Shufu, the Chinese businessman who owns the Geely group, acquired a $9 billion stake in Daimler, which makes Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks. Forging ties with Daimler could be tough for Geely, writes Jeffrey Goldfarb of Breakingviews. And the money would have been far better spent on organic growth, Bloomberg Gadfly’s David Fickling argues. • Regulators in control of Anbang indicated that they intend to hold onto the Waldorf Astoria, unnamed sources told the WSJ. But they are listening to offers for other hotels in Anbang’s portfolio. • The challenge for those regulators: They must avoid a fire sale and contagion that could hit healthier financial institutions. • China’s crackdown on outbound deals and heavy debt loads is colliding with pushback from American authorities citing national security concerns. The road from China to the U.S. appears to be largely closed for now, writes Brooke Sutherland of Bloomberg Gadfly. • Tech leaders are envisioning a reinvention of the city. (NYT) • Researchers and technology firms are looking at social media and smartphone use to see if the data reveal changes in physical and mental health. (NYT) • Apple will start storing encryption keys for some iCloud customers in China, raising concerns with some privacy experts. (WSJ) • In the push for self-driving cars, a variety of technology and automotive companies are pursuing efforts to create mapping systems, hoping to beat Google to the punch. (Bloomberg) • Facebook and Google are struggling to contain posts falsely claiming that some survivors of the Florida school shooting were paid actors. (NYT) • Russian spies hacked computers at the 2018 Winter Olympics and tried to make it appear that the intrusion was by North Korea, according to unnamed U.S. officials. (Washington Post) That’s Arianna Simpson, one of the relatively few women who were early cryptocurrency investors. The world of virtual currencies and blockchain has been dominated by men, but female investors and entrepreneurs are trying to change that. • McKinsey has elected Kevin Sneader, the firm’s Asia-Pacific chairman, to lead the consultancy. (FT) • Marianne Lake, JPMorgan’s chief financial officer, has emerged as a contender to succeed Jamie Dimon. (WSJ) • TCI Fund Management, run by the investor Christopher Hohn, and TPG-Axon Management have sued funds managed by the private-equity company IREO over a big Indian real estate bet that has failed to see much of the capital invested returned more than a decade later. (Barron’s) • Deutsche Bank plans to sell a minority stake in its asset management business as part of an initial public offering next month. (Bloomberg) • Saudi Arabia is making overtures to China and Russia for help in diversifying its oil-dependent economy. At stake is the Saudi Aramco public offering and the future of the kingdom’s economic overhaul. (NYT) • Qualcomm said it believed it had made progress in takeover talks with its suitor Broadcom regarding regulatory and other issues. Qualcomm also urged Broadcom to negotiate further over the price of the deal, after having called previous offers an undervaluation. (Reuters) • Investors are borrowing a record amount to buy stocks, which could lead to more volatile financial markets, analysts say. (WSJ) • Volkswagen’s U.S. business has agreed to settle a lawsuit brought by more than 300 diesel vehicle owners over the carmaker’s emissions scandal. (Reuters) Know someone who would enjoy this newsletter? Tell them to sign up here. You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook. We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.