 Q. Last year I opened a Facebook account, and as I entered my information I soon decided I didn’t want to continue. I deleted the app on my phone and tablet. Occasionally, I receive a “Welcome back to Facebook” message and realize I’ve not cut the cord. Is there way to sever this connection for good? Completely?  A. Removing the Facebook app from your mobile devices does not delete the user account connected with it. To fully sever your ties with the social network, you need to visit the site’s Account Deletion page and log back in; you can do this from a web browser if you do not want to download the mobile app again. Use the box on the page to officially request that Facebook delete your account. Facebook’s settings page also offers an account deactivation option, which removes your profile page from view but is not permanent. Accounts are reactivated when you log back in. If you deactivated your account and then started up a laptop that was set to automatically log into Facebook, your account may have revived itself. From your account settings page, you can see on which devices you are logged into Facebook and then log out if necessary. Logging in, then logging out of any forgotten devices and permanently deleting the account should cut your Facebook ties. (More active Facebook users can download an archive of the posts made while using the service by clicking the “Download a copy of your Facebook data” link on the account settings page.) If you deactivated the account and are sure no other devices were set to automatically log into Facebook, receiving “Welcome back” messages may mean Facebook is trying to re-engage you or that someone else is trying to get into your account. You can report the problem at facebook.com/hacked. Change the password of the mail account you used for Facebook and — to be safe — reset your Facebook password before deleting the account. Fake messages purporting to be from Facebook have been flying around the internet for years, so it is also possible you received a phishing attempt urging you to supply your account information to a fraudulent site. Late last year, Facebook announced that its users could see a list of official messages by clicking the link at the bottom of the Security and Login tab on the Settings page. If you see that Facebook has not sent you any legitimate messages, report the one you received to phish@facebook.com.