 LONDON — What is now Thomson Reuters came to life a decade ago in a $17 billion merger of the Thomson financial information business and the Reuters news service. Now, the company has reached another potentially transformative deal: selling a majority stake in its financial and risk division to the Blackstone Group, the private equity giant. A consortium led by Blackstone announced on Tuesday that it had taken a 55 percent stake in the unit in a deal that values the division at $20 billion, including debt. It is the private equity firm’s biggest acquisition since the global financial crisis. The consortium includes Blackstone, the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and GIC, a sovereign wealth fund established by Singapore’s government. Striking a deal with Blackstone helps Thomson Reuters buttress its biggest division, which has faced headwinds amid lower spending by banks and other clients and competition from rivals like Bloomberg L.P. The financial and risk unit, which provides research and analysis tools to financial markets professionals, had revenue of $6.1 billion in 2016, a figure that accounted for more than half of the company’s total sales. The business includes Eikon, Thomson Reuters’s flagship information terminal system. The Eikon system trails Bloomberg in terms of market share: Bloomberg had about a third of the market in 2016, while the Thomson Reuters service had about 23 percent, according to data from Burton-Taylor International Consulting. Thomson Reuters, which is based in Toronto, will retain a 45 percent equity stake in the financial and risk business and full ownership of its legal, tax and accounting, and news operations, according to the statement. Blackstone brings more than cash to the joint venture with Thomson Reuters. The private equity firm also owns Ipreo, another financial data firm, which it and Goldman Sachs bought for $975 million in 2014. “We are excited to partner with Thomson Reuters — one of the most trusted companies in financial technology,” said Martin Brand, a senior managing director at Blackstone. Shares in Thomson Reuters were up more than 7 percent to $46.52 at the close of trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday.