 Here’s what to expect in the week ahead: AUTO INDUSTRY A federal judge in Detroit is scheduled to sentence a Volkswagen executive, Oliver Schmidt, on Wednesday to a potentially lengthy prison term for his role in the automaker’s decade-long diesel emissions scandal. Mr. Schmidt, the former head of Volkswagen’s environmental and engineering center in Michigan, pleaded guilty in August to charges of conspiracy, fraud and violating the Clean Air Act in connection with Volkswagen’s systematic scheme to rig vehicles with devices that circumvented federal pollution tests. Prosecutors have recommended that Mr. Schmidt receive a prison term of seven years and fines of up to $400,000. It would be the harshest penalty yet imposed on a Volkswagen official. The company itself has pleaded guilty to conspiracy and other charges, and paid more than $22 billion in civil and criminal penalties and consumer settlements. Bill Vlasic ECONOMY Investors will be monitoring the German Social Democrats’ convention on Thursday in Berlin, where the main issue will be whether to continue participating in a grand coalition with Chancellor Angela Merkel and her Christian Democrats. Five years of compromising with Ms. Merkel have hurt the party’s standing with blue collar voters, and the party had planned to remain in opposition after elections in September. But the Social Democrats are Ms. Merkel’s only option to form a stable government, and they face pressure to cooperate in the interests of political and economic stability. So far the turmoil in Berlin has not shaken business confidence, but that could change if the political instability continues. Jack Ewing The world’s bankers will be listening closely when Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, holds a news conference on Thursday after a meeting of the committee that sets global standards for lenders. Mr. Draghi, who is the chairman of the group that includes central bankers and regulators from the world’s largest countries, will provide an update on the latest changes to the so-called Basel III regulations. The rules on capital, risk and other issues are enormously important to the banking industry. Jack Ewing The Labor Department is scheduled to release its report on the nation’s hiring and unemployment for November at 8:30 a.m. on Friday. Wall Street analysts expect that payrolls will have grown by 195,000 workers and that the jobless rate will remain flat at 4.1 percent, its lowest level since 2000. On Capitol Hill, Republicans have promised their newly approved tax bills will help rev the economy, but regardless, monthly job creation — aside from the hurricane-tossed months — has been strong this year. Economists and workers, though, are still waiting for the reputedly tight labor market to push up wages. The average hourly wage was expected to climb 0.3 percent, nudging up the annual year-over-year increase to 2.6 percent, better than October’s showing, but still barely ahead of inflation. Patricia Cohen