 Call it cheeky, sentimental or delusional, but Paul Jacobs’s idea of making an offer for Qualcomm, the company he chaired until this month, is certainly daring. The chip maker only just wiggled out from under a takeover offer from rival Broadcom. What Qualcomm really needs is less a buyer and more a mediator. There are usually two reasons to take a company private — the idea that the new owner can run it better, or a belief that the market is valuing it wrongly. Broadcom took the first path, and pointed at Qualcomm’s paltry revenue growth and relatively low operating margins. Mr. Jacobs, whose father co-founded the company, is not the man to tackle those problems — if he were, he would have done it when he was executive chairman. Valuation is a more compelling argument. It hinges on Qualcomm’s rift with Apple. The iPhone maker is supposed to pay Qualcomm royalties on every phone sold, but has instructed its suppliers to hold back payment while it haggles with the chip maker on how those should be calculated. A simple calculation shows how important this is: At $10 per phone on 250 million devices per year, Qualcomm would make $2.5 billion in revenue a year, almost all of which would flow to the bottom line. That’s equivalent to a lump-sum value of perhaps $17 billion, assuming a tax rate of 21 percent and margins of 85 percent. If investors aren’t pricing in any Apple royalty at all right now, that’s enough to justify a price close to the $117 billion Broadcom offered. Mr. Jacobs, however, is not the right person to mend the rift with Apple. One person who could, in theory, is SoftBank’s Masayoshi Son. The Japanese investor has a longstanding relationship with Apple — and counts both Apple and Qualcomm as investors in his Vision Fund, which is also one of the financial companies Mr. Jacobs reportedly has been asking to finance a bid. Conceivably, he could help them split the difference. Would SoftBank’s founder be up for the gig? Qualcomm, as a leader in 5G, is a trophy asset, and having Mr. Jacobs on board might neutralize some of the fear of foreign ownership that destroyed Broadcom’s bid. But Qualcomm is also politically sensitive, a supplier to SoftBank already — and very big. Even with help, Qualcomm is probably too big a bite for SoftBank to chew. Mr. Jacobs, and Mr. Son for that matter, can use their daring to better effect elsewhere.