 PASADENA, Calif. — Get ready for Rose McGowan on the small screen. Ms. McGowan, the actress turned activist whose accusations against Harvey Weinstein helped spur a national reckoning on sexual abuse and harassment, will star in a documentary series, “Citizen Rose,” that is scheduled to premiere on E! later this month. “It is a time of reckoning and the reset button,” she said at a Television Critics Association media event on Tuesday. The cable network promised that the series will be an unfettered look into Ms. McGowan’s life. Filming began in September, the month before the publication of the New York Times story that disclosed her settlement agreement with Mr. Weinstein, whom she had accused of sexual assault. “She kept saying, ‘It’ll be worth it, I promise,’” Andrea Metz, an executive producer of the series, said of Ms. McGowan’s pitch to Bunim/Murray Productions. Jonathan Murray, the chairman of Bunim/Murray, the production company behind reality shows like “The Real World” and “Keeping Up With the Kardashians,” said, “As it all blew up this fall, we’ve been filming.” He added that the show will also incorporate footage that Ms. McGowan has recorded over the past three years. Since the Weinstein story broke, Ms. McGowan, who is also an executive producer of the series, has became one of the biggest social media voices advocating for women who said they were victims of sexual harassment and abuse. She has also condemned men who have been accused of sexual misconduct and criticized others who, in her view, have not been outspoken enough. Along the way, her online fan base, known as the #RoseArmy, has increased. On Sunday, during a Golden Globes ceremony when many women wore black and several people wore Time’s Up pins, Ms. McGowan lashed out on Twitter at what she described as “Hollywood fakery.” Ms. McGowan, who made her name in independent films and the horror-comedy hit “Scream” in the 1990s, conceded that she “makes people uncomfortable,” but also said, “Do you understand what I’ve been through for the last 20 years?” The series will debut with a two-hour episode on Jan. 30 and return for four additional installments in the spring. “I wanted really to be like Gertrude Stein and have a conversation with the world,” Ms. McGowan said. “Instead of in my living room.” E! has faced mixed results with topical programming. “I Am Cait,” its documentary series about Caitlyn Jenner and her new life as a trans woman, went off the air after two sluggish seasons. “Mariah’s World,” the cable network’s recent series about Mariah Carey — filmed during her world tour and as she prepared for what was supposed to be her wedding — started strong before its ratings collapsed. And though some stars who have participated in reality shows have been reluctant to call them that, Ms. McGowan said she was not above the genre. “I’m down with calling this reality,” she said, “because this is mine.”