 LOS ANGELES — The Weinstein Company said that it would file for bankruptcy following the collapse of sale talks with an investor group, extending the damage from sexual misconduct allegations against Harvey Weinstein, its co-owner and a onetime force in Hollywood. The beleaguered film and television studio said in a statement late Sunday that it had failed to reach a deal with a group led by Maria Contreras-Sweet, who ran the Small Business Administration under President Barack Obama. The group had offered to pay roughly $275 million for the Weinstein Company, plus the assumption of $225 million in debt. “While we recognize that this is an extremely unfortunate outcome for our employees, our creditors and any victims, the board has no choice,” the company’s statement said. “Over the coming days, the company will prepare its bankruptcy filing with the goal of achieving maximum value in court.” The Weinstein Company board, a three-member group that includes its co-founder Bob Weinstein, also released a sharply worded letter it sent earlier on Sunday to Ms. Contreras-Sweet and one of her primary backers, Ron Burkle, the billionaire investor. In the letter, the board members said they had worked “tirelessly” in recent days to meet “virtually every demand you imposed,” including waiving a breakup fee if a deal was not consummated. However, Ms. Contreras-Sweet’s team, according to the letter, had not come through with promised interim funding to keep the 150-employee studio operating while a deal was completed. The letter also said that she had proposed new sale conditions that could add “many months (or longer)” to the closing process. “Late last night, you returned to us an incomplete document that unfortunately does not keep your promises,” the letter said. “That is regrettable, but not in our power to change.” Representatives for Ms. Contreras-Sweet’s team did not respond to a request for comment. The Weinstein Company has been trying to avoid bankruptcy since October, when reports by The New York Times and The New Yorker revealed decades of sexual harassment allegations against Harvey Weinstein. To stay afloat while it pursued a sale, the studio at first sought loans from private equity firms. When those efforts failed, the Weinstein Company sold off North American distribution rights to “Paddington 2,” an animated movie that was released in January. Through a spokeswoman, Harvey Weinstein has repeatedly denied “any allegations of nonconsensual sex.” The Weinstein Company’s announcement on Sunday came two weeks after Eric T. Schneiderman, New York’s attorney general, filed a lawsuit against the studio and its fraternal founders alleging that they repeatedly violated state and city laws barring gender discrimination, sexual harassment, sexual abuse and coercion. The lawsuit, based on a continuing investigation into the Weinstein Company’s internal dealings, was accompanied by a public call from Mr. Schneiderman for assurance that a sale to Ms. Contreras-Sweet’s group had three components: adequate compensation for victims, protections for the studio’s remaining employees and no financial reward for those “who enabled or perpetuated Mr. Weinstein’s misconduct.” That brought the sale talks to a sudden halt. In the wake of the lawsuit and Mr. Schneiderman’s public statements, the Weinstein Company fired its president, David Glasser, for cause. The lawsuit did not name Mr. Glasser, but it referred to him by his title and said that the sale of the company could result in employees’ reporting to some of the same managers “who failed to investigate” Mr. Weinstein’s conduct or protect female employees from him. In a statement, a lawyer for Mr. Glasser, Eve Wagner, said that Mr. Glasser planned to sue for wrongful termination. On Wednesday, Ms. Contreras-Sweet and Mr. Burkle met with Mr. Schneiderman in New York and made progress toward persuading him that their purchase would satisfy his three stated priorities, according to two people briefed on the matter who asked for anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly. In particular, the sale was to include tens of millions of dollars for victims and a mediation process for reaching settlements. The Weinstein brothers, who jointly own about 42 percent of the studio, would have received no cash from the proposed sale, with other equity holders also wiped out. Eric Soufer, the director of communications for Mr. Schneiderman, said in a statement on Monday that the attorney general’s office had “productive discussions with both parties” during the past two weeks about how to accomplish his priorities. “We are disappointed that despite a clear path forward on those issues — including the buyer’s commitment to dedicate up to $90 million to victim compensation and implement gold-plated H.R. policies — the parties were unable to resolve their financial differences,” Mr. Soufer said. “We will continue to pursue justice for victims in the event of the company’s bankruptcy, and our investigation into the pattern of egregious abuse by Harvey Weinstein and his enablers is ongoing.” Ms. Contreras-Sweet’s group had pulled ahead of other bidders like Lionsgate by promising to keep the studio intact and the staff employed. Other bidders were interested only in pieces of the Weinstein Company, namely its 277-film library, which includes titles like “The Imitation Game” and “Django Unchained.” The Weinstein Company also has a television division that makes “Project Runway” and is working on a pair of dramas for the Paramount Network, which is owned by Viacom. Other assets include a handful of unreleased movies, including “Polaroid,” a teenage horror movie; “The War With Grandpa,” a comedy starring Robert De Niro; “The Upside,” a comedy starring Kevin Hart and Bryan Cranston; and “The Current War,” a period drama. The Weinstein brothers first came to prominence with Miramax in 1989, the year they helped activate the indie-film boom with “Sex, Lies and Videotape.” They sold Miramax to Disney in 1993 and left in 2005 to form the Weinstein Company. They unsuccessfully dabbled in side businesses, including a fashion label, but eventually found their film footing with releases like “The King’s Speech,” which won the Academy Award for best picture in 2010. Even so, recent years have been difficult for the studio. The Weinsteins have not had a mainstream hit at the North American box office since 2013, when “Lee Daniels’ The Butler” took in $116.6 million. The last time a Weinstein film was a force at the Oscars was in 2012, when “The Artist” collected five awards, including best picture.