 Good Wednesday. Here’s what we’re watching: • Facebook reports earnings • Twitter’s strong results were driven by an impressive performance overseas. • The fight is on for Sky. • Why investors are feeling blue. • What’s behind the fight over an important banking regulation. Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here. Facebook, engulfed in scandals stemming from the abuse of its network, has promised to spend large sums policing its operations, even if those outlays hurt the company’s bottom line. Facebook’s first-quarter results, released on Wednesday, gave the public a chance to see if Facebook is investing a lot more on cleaning up and securing its network. The company’s profits did not suffer much in the quarter. The results did show that expenses went up, and a company executive said on a conference call that security spending in part drove the increases. Still, the expense numbers did not provide clear evidence that Facebook is going the extra mile to police its network. Stamping out abuse was not the only cause of Facebook’s higher expenses – and the company’s costs are more or less in proportion to the levels of past quarters. Here are some relevant numbers. • On the conference call, David Wehner, Facebook’s C.F.O., highlighted a 51 percent increase in sales and marketing expense, the company’s third-biggest expense item. One of the drivers of the increase was spending on protecting the Facebook community, he said. But there were other factors, he added, like spending on what he called innovation. • What is more, the sales and marketing expense was equivalent to 13 percent of revenue in the first quarter, the same share as a year ago. An increase in that percentage would bolster Facebook’s claims that it is pulling out the stops to prevent misuse. • Cost of revenue expense, the second largest cost line, surged 66 percent in the first quarter, and it rose proportionately as well. In the first quarter, it was 16 percent of revenue, compared to 14 percent for the same period a year earlier. • Facebook’s largest expense line, research and development, did not show an abnormal increase. It had a 22 percent annual growth rate in the first quarter, slower than the 25 percent annual jump in the fourth quarter of 2017. It accounted for 19 percent of revenue in the first quarter, down from 23 percent in the same period a year ago. If Facebook wants to spend more on protecting its community, it can. Its operating earnings are equivalent to 46 percent of its revenue, an impressive level of profitability that provides Facebook with enough cash to finance a serious effort to minimize abuse. But it is still not clear that it’s doing that. - Peter Eavis The social network’s  worst crisis in its 14-year history is so far doing little to its bottom line, thanks to continued growth in its mobile advertising business. • Net income rose 63 percent to $4.99 billion, up from $3.06 billion a year ago. • Earnings per share came in at $1.69. Analysts expectations of $1.35 per share. • Revenue jumped 49 percent to 11.97 billion. Analysts had expected revenue of $11.41 billion, according to Thomson Reuters. • Mobile advertising revenue rose 50 percent to $11.8 billion. • Facebook now has 1.45 billion daily users worldwide • Daily active users in the U.S. and Canada rose to 185 million in the first quarter. • Facebook added about 70 million monthly users during the quarter. • Monthly active users in the U.S. and Canada increased to 241 million • It now has 2.2 billion users. • Average revenue per user rose to $5.53 from $4.23 a year ago. • Cost of revenue came in at 16 percent, compared with 14 percent during the first quarter of 2017. Twitter on Wednesday posted strong first-quarter results that were driven by an impressive performance outside of the United States. But anyone wanting to assess where the stellar foreign growth came from – and whether it can continue — would have little company data with which to work. Twitter on Monday did not break down international revenues by region. It did say that Japan, its second largest source of revenue, brought in $117 million, a 61 percent increase. Facebook, in contrast, releases revenue and user numbers for four regions. That Twitter offers limited international data is perhaps not that surprising, given that the company does not release a tally for daily active users, a number Facebook provides. (Twitter does release a growth number for daily users but only provides an actual total for monthly active users.) Twitter’s revenue trends may at some point prompt it to divulge more. Foreign advertising revenue accounted for half its sales in the first quarter, compared with 40 percent in the same period a year ago. Ned Segal, Twitter’s chief financial officer, on Wednesday said the strength of international revenue could mean that they account for more than half of the total. In the first quarter, foreign ad revenue surged 51 percent, compared with the year-earlier period. In the United States, the increase was just 1 percent. Mr. Segal did mention some first-quarter “highlights” for the international operations. A good ad sales performance and audience growth powered Japan’s results, he said, adding that ads outside of China for Chinese exporters were also a source of strength. Britain, Brazil and the Middle East were also bright spots, Mr. Segal said. Twitter’s stock slid on Wednesday despite the good numbers. With a little more clarity, investors may be willing to give them more weight. - Peter Eavis Comcast has formally bid nearly $31 billion for the European broadcaster. Sky has withdrawn its recommendation of Fox’s year-and-a-half-old bid for full control. What’s next? Keep these dates in mind • On May 1, Britain’s competition regulator, the Competition and Markets Authority, is expected to offer its recommendation on whether Fox’s bid should allowed to go through. • By June 13 or so, Britain’s culture secretary, Matthew Hancock, is expected to make a final decision on Fox’s offer. In the meantime, Comcast is working to obtain regulatory approvals for its own bid. Given the American telecom giant’s relatively small presence in Britain, that shouldn’t be too much of an issue. About Fox/Disney raising their bid: It’s an open question whether shareholders of those companies would support a bidding war. Shares in Fox were up 2 percent as of midday Wednesday, while those in Disney were up 1 percent. — Michael de la Merced Putting together a nearly $31 billion takeover requires a fair amount of help. Here’s who’s working for Comcast and Sky — and Fox, which may come back with a higher bid. Comcast • Robey Warshaw, the small boutique investment bank run by “the two Simons.” Both Mr. Robey and Mr. Warshaw are on the deal. • Evercore Partners, led by co-founder Roger Altman and senior deal maker Eduardo Mestre • Bank of America Merrill Lynch (which is working as corporate brokers, a peculiarly British function that is something like relationship banking and market surveillance), led by Adrian Mee, a global co-head of M.&amp;A., and Tim Waddell, a vice chairman of corporate and investment banking for Europe and a veteran corporate broker. • Wells Fargo, led by Stephen Locke, a managing director. Sky • Morgan Stanley (financial adviser and corporate broker), led by Simon Smith, head of investment banking in Europe; Anthony Zammit, a managing director; and Ben Grindley of corporate broking. • PJT Partners, led by partners Simon Lyons and Scott Matlock. • Barclays (as financial adviser and corporate broker), led by Mark Astaire, chairman of corporate broking and Richard Taylor, co-head of investment banking. Fox • Deutsche Bank, led by Gavin Deane, global co-head of T.M.T., and James Arculus, head of U.K. M.&amp;A. • Centerview Partners, led by co-founder and longtime Fox adviser Blair Effron and partners David Cohen and James Hartop • Goldman Sachs, led by investment banking co-head and longtime Fox adviser John Waldron; Mark Sorrell, head of M.&amp;A. for EMEA (and a son of Martin Sorrell); and managing directors Mike Smith and Owain Evans • JPMorgan Chase, led by Jennifer Nason, global chairwoman of T.M.T.; Hugo Baring, co-head of T.M.T. banking for EMEA; Marco Caggiano, a managing director; and Dwayne Lysaght, head of U.K. M.&amp;A. — Michael de la Merced In formally making a 22 billion pound ($30.7 billion) bid for the British broadcaster, Comcast is challenging Rupert Murdoch for control of a crown jewel he wants dearly. How the offers stack up: • Comcast: £12.50 a share, and pledges to maintain Sky News’s independence • Fox: £10.75 a share for the 61 percent of Sky it doesn’t yet own. (Disney, which had already agreed to buy the bulk of Fox in a separate deal, has also offered to buy Sky News to satisfy editorial independence concerns.) Given the higher price of Comcast’s bid, Sky withdrew its recommendation for Fox. The big questions: What will Fox and Disney do now? (Fox said it’s considering its options.) And will anyone’s shareholders — apart from Sky’s — support a bidding war? In other big deal news: Shire said it’s willing to recommend Takeda’s new $64 billion takeover bid, which would be one of the biggest pharmaceutical deals of late. But shares in Takeda slumped, raising questions about whether Shire investors will agree. Financial companies are on the brink of having one of their top demands granted: an end to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s public database of complaints about their products and services. What’s in the database Since 2011, the bureau has maintained an open, searchable record of more than one million consumer reports about inaccurate debt collections, illegal fees, improper overdraft charges, mistakes on loans and other problems. By law, the consumer bureau has to collect those complaints. But it is not legally required to share them online. Why finance institutions want it shut down They say the database can be misleading because the agency publishes a record of all the complaints that it receives, without vetting them. The companies also argue that they already have channels for resolving customer disputes. Why consumer groups say that could be problematic Consumer groups argue that taking the database offline would neuter one of its core purposes: pushing companies to take complaints more seriously. The bureau has used the complaints to spot patterns of bad behavior. A wave of complaints about Wells Fargo helped spur the agency’s investigation and exposure of the bank’s sham accounts. Complaints have also prompted actions against student loan servicers, debt collectors, mortgage lenders and credit card companies. More than 185,000 complaints to the bureau have been resolved with some form of compensation or relief, often with financial institutions changing their practices or making customers whole. The social media company became the latest firm to easily beat expectations, only to have its shares tumble. Twitter reported a profit of $61 million, its second-straight profitable quarter. Revenue rose 21 percent to $665 million during the first quarter. User numbers rose slightly to 336 million per month. Shares opened up 5 percent before tumbling more than 7 percent. The reason? The company softened its outlook for the year. If those stock moves sound familiar, that’s because similar moves happened at 3M and Caterpillar on Tuesday. Despite meeting expectations, 3M tumbled after it lowered the high end of its outlook. Caterpillar, meanwhile, raised its guidance for the year, but comments on its conference call that the first quarter would be the “high-water mark” for earnings per share sent the stock sliding. Why such big moves? It’s worth pointing back to what DealBook’s Peter Eavis wrote Tuesday: In the case of Twitter, the stock is up about 30 percent this year and more than 75 percent since late October. A rally like that leaves little room to disappoint. Wall Street executives are eagerly awaiting a relaxation of the supplemental leverage rule, which governs how much their firms can borrow. The Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of Currency are for it; the F.D.I.C. and Lael Brainard, an Obama administration appointee at the Fed, are opposed. Peter Eavis outlines the arguments: Why relax the rule? It’s making it too hard for banks to do business. “The best analogy is that it’s like having the same speed limit for every road in the country,” Greg Baer of the Clearing House Association told Peter. Why keep it? The rule provides adequate protection in case there’s another downturn, and banks have been doing fine otherwise. “U.S. bank lending has been healthy over recent years and profits are strong,” Ms. Brainerd said in a speech last week. • A federal judge ruled that the DACA program must continue and accept new applications, because the Trump administration didn’t adequately justify ending it. (The decision was stayed 90 days.) • Mick Mulvaney encouraged banking lobbyists to pressure lawmakers into shrinking the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which he leads. (NYT) • The Supreme Court has continued to narrow the grounds for obstruction of justice, Peter Henning writes. It also barred human rights lawsuits against foreign companies and upheld a way of challenging patents. • Steven Mnuchin, Larry Kudlow and the U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, will go to Beijing for trade talks next week. (NYT) • Two Democratic senators have asked banks to turn over evidence tied to any accounts held by oligarchs connected to Vladimir Putin. (WSJ) • The E.P.A. announced plans to restrict which kinds of studies it could use to justify rules. Senator James Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma and Scott Pruitt’s longtime political patron, now supports investigations into the E.P.A. chief. • The Kushner Companies reportedly turned to BofI Federal Bank for $57 million to help finance a troubled Jersey City development. (Bloomberg) • Still the big question in the CBS-Viacom talks: What about Bob (Bakish, Viacom’s chief)? (WSJ) • Sinclair revised its plans to win regulatory approval for its takeover of Tribune, but many TV stations it proposes selling would still go to sister businesses. Chris Ruddy of Newsmax said the deal would be “the biggest game change in American politics.” • The Justice Department’s star witness against AT&amp;T’s bid for Time Warner conceded on the stand that he had miscalculated a data point. (Bloomberg) • Turns out mutual funds are pretty good at valuing privately held start-ups. (The Information) • WeWork is reportedly hired a dozen banks to help it sell $500 million worth of junk bonds. (FT) • SoftBank is reportedly considering moving its stakes in ride-hailing companies like Uber into its Vision Fund. (FT) • Sequoia Capital will finally take public pension fund money — up to $350 million from Washington state for its latest fund — and open up its finances in the process. (Axios) The NYT’s updated Glass Ceiling Index, which counts the female and male leaders in leadership positions throughout America, shows some striking findings: • There are more Republican senators and Democratic governors named John than there are women in either group. • There are almost as many C.E.O.s named John in the Fortune 500 as female C.E.O.s in that group. Elsewhere in gender and the workplace: Uber said that women held 18 percent of its tech jobs, trailing others in Silicon Valley. Chinese tech companies are  hiring “motivators”: attractive women to chat-up male programmers. Even as the tech giant rolls out more granular privacy controls, European regulators and other critics are asking if the company is taking too much user data. One bigger issue: Adding controls doesn’t necessarily lead to users sharing less data, critics contend. “Privacy control settings give people more rope to hang themselves,” the behavioral economist George Loewenstein told Eduardo Porter. In other Facebook news: The academic at the center of the Cambridge Analytica scandal talked down the effectiveness of his profiling. The company replaced its head of U.S. policy, Erin Egan, though she’ll remain chief privacy officer. Her interim replacement will be Kevin Martin, a former Republican chairman of the F.C.C. Elsewhere in tech: Amazon will start delivering to car trunks. Jeff Bezos said that big tech companies deserved scrutiny. Apple put $16 billion into a Dublin escrow account to start complying with a European Commission tax order. Yahoo’s successor must pay a $35 million fine over the handling of a 2014 data breach. Regulators are wary of start-ups using presales of cryptocurrency tokens. Bill Harris, formerly of Intuit and PayPal, says flatly that Bitcoin is “a colossal pump-and-dump scheme.” • Atlas Mara, the African financial firm founded by Bob Diamond, has hired John Staley as C.E.O. (FT) • The health care venture formed by Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase reportedly plans to hire a C.E.O. within two months. (Axios) • Gregory Craig, the Skadden partner who oversaw a report for Ukraine that is under investigation by Robert Mueller, has left. (Bloomberg) • Citigroup’s C.E.O., Mike Corbat, may be in line to become chairman too. (Bloomberg) • The president of Sears’s real estate business, Jeff Stollenwerck, plans to leave. (Reuters) • Jim Hackett has shuffled Ford’s executive ranks and promised new S.U.V.s and electric cars. But analysts want a clearer, and faster, turnaround plan. (NYT) • French police detained the logistics tycoon Vincent Bolloré for questioning over port deals in two African countries. (WSJ) • Millions of dollars went from The Weinstein Company to the Weinstein brothers and the executive David Glasser even after the Harvey Weinstein scandal broke. (WSJ) • At Pimco, one man used to make many key investment decisions. Now software will. (WSJ) • Global investment banks may still struggle to control securities joint ventures in China, the Asia Securities Industry &amp; Financial Markets Association said. (FT) • Zhao Changpeng, founder of Binance, the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchange, is being sued by Sequoia Capital over a funding deal. (Bloomberg) • A protest march greeted the Wells Fargo shareholders’ meeting, where investors backed executive pay plans. (Bloomberg) We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.