 Q. My kids are growing up fast and they bring home tons of paperwork and memories from school. Is there is an efficient way to scan the projects and even record the children describing the art? A. Inexpensive mobile apps that allow you to photograph your children’s artistic creations and archive the works can be a convenient way to save (and share) the memories. Keepy (for Android, iOS and Kindle) is one well-reviewed app in this category and offers the ability to record audio and video commentary on the saved schoolwork from the child. Canvsly (for Android and iOS) is another app for digitally saving and organizing children’s art and school projects. As with other similar apps, Keepy and Canvsly have built-in tools for creating and purchasing photo-books and other gift items from the saved artwork. Collecting the original art from the refrigerator and having photographs of it in a printed book can also be protection against factors like technology’s constant evolution, companies going out of business and software becoming obsolete. If you do not want to use photos from a smartphone app to create a book, custom-printing companies like Plum Print will professionally photograph children’s artwork and use the high-quality images to create a hardback book for you. Other photo-sharing sites with printing services can create the art books as well. If you do not want to collect the memories in a dedicated smartphone app, and you can take a more free-form approach by snapping pictures and making videos yourself of the children explaining their art projects. Once you have created the photos and clips, you can post the content on regular file-sharing sites like Dropbox, Apple iCloud, Google Drive and Microsoft OneDrive — with password-protection, of course, to allow only relatives to view the galleries. For public display, the Artsonia mobile apps for Android and iOS let teachers and parents share children’s artwork on the Artsonia gallery, which serves as a worldwide student art museum on the web.