 The German carmaker Daimler is set to buy Europcar’s 25 percent stake in the car-sharing service Car2Go for 70 million euros, paving the way for Mercedes and BMW to develop driverless taxis, the two companies announced on Thursday. Daimler, the owner of the Mercedes brand, and BMW, Germany’s two biggest luxury carmakers, are already in discussions to combine their car-sharing services Car2Go and DriveNow. The companies are preparing for a new era in mobility services where self-driving cars could allow them to expand into a business segment that is currently dominated by Uber in the United States and Didi Chuxing in China. BMW’s DriveNow and Daimler’s Car2Go have a strong presence in European cities and in American cities, but the introduction of self-driving cars could spur a big expansion into autonomous taxi services. Car2Go is a twist on traditional car-rental services: It allows members to hop into vehicles for a quick trip to a grocery store or a concert; they pay for use of the car by the minute (hourly and daily rates are available, too). BMW began its first car-sharing service, DriveNow, in Europe in a joint venture with the rental car company Sixt; it now has about 875,000 members for the service. In January, BMW bought out Sixt from DriveNow, which was seen as one step on the road to an alliance. Consultancy PwC has said that conventional carmakers will become marginalized by cash-rich technology firms if they do not develop pay-per-mile mobility services. Their share of global auto industry profits may fall to less than 50 percent from 85 percent by 2030. “The only companies that can survive in the long term are either those that prevail as a clear innovation leader on the product side, or those that recognize that mobility is no longer a product, but rather a service,” said Christoph Stuermer, global lead analyst at PwC Autofacts. Daimler and BMW are aiming to build a joint business that includes car-sharing, ride-hailing, electric vehicle charging and digital parking services, consolidating their strong footprint in Europe. The two companies have not confirmed the plans, but Daimler said last month it was open to considering a broader alliance and a partial listing of its mobility services operations, which also includes its taxi-hailing and the transportation services apps Mytaxi and Moovel. Daimler said on Thursday its mobility services business was poised to expand its portfolio and its customer base, using the expertise gained from Car2Go to work toward an offering with self-driving cars. “The goal is to develop the required expertise and resources so that we are a leader in the future business with self-driving cars,” the company said. China’s Geely took a 9.7 percent stake in Daimler last week, citing a wish to cooperate on technology.