 Jake Kazdal, an American video game developer who lives in Kyoto, Japan, spent a night in early March refreshing the website of GameStop, the video game retail chain in the United States. He wanted to buy Nintendo’s just-released console, the Switch. But the device had already sold out in Japan, forcing him to look elsewhere. While Mr. Kazdal had bought Nintendo’s previous console, the Wii U, a few years earlier, he soon had buyer’s remorse. “After a few short games at my folks’ place, everyone was done,” he said. “I remember thinking, ‘Uh-oh.’” The announcement of the Switch, however — a sort of two-in-one device that can be played at home or on the go — lowered his skepticism about Nintendo. Nine months later, his support is full-throated. “It’s what the Wii U should have been,” he said. Mr. Kazdal’s changing view on Nintendo is widely shared. This time last year, the company that made Mario and Donkey Kong household names seemed to have lost both its audience and its enchanted touch. Players were moving elsewhere. Losses were piling up. But thanks largely to the arrival of the Switch in March, Nintendo has had a startling turnaround year. The new console became the fastest-selling video game system in Nintendo’s history — to the point where the company failed to keep up with demand. In Japan, thousands of people lined up this summer to enter a lottery for a chance to buy one. In the United States, retailers struggled, for much of the year, to maintain stock. Nintendo’s internal target for its first-year sales of the Switch has risen to 16 million from 10 million. In the company’s most recent quarterly report, released in October, it announced profit of $209 million, after regularly reporting losses in previous quarters. Its stock is up more than 75 percent this year. “Neither analysts nor investors predicted the strength of adoption for the Switch,” says Piers Harding-Rolls, who leads a group of game industry analysts at IHS Markit, a research firm. After years of resistance, Nintendo has also embraced the widespread move to mobile gaming that has reshaped the industry. Late last year, it introduced Super Mario Run, bringing the mustachioed plumber to the iPhone for the first time. Introducing new versions of some classic consoles, like the Super Nintendo, has also provided a revenue lift. But the major reason for the company’s recent success has been its ability to identify and correct several problems with the Wii U, a console it released in 2012. Third-party publishers made few games for the system, and Nintendo’s games, while lauded, were released infrequently, then not at all. The problems started with branding, however. The device’s name implied an iterative upgrade to the Wii, an earlier hit that popularized motion-sensing controllers, but the Wii U was a much different console. The Wii U’s controller, which included an iPad-like screen that allowed for new game possibilities but also defied easy explanation, compounded the problem. “It was a bit difficult for consumers to understand what the system was about,” said Shigeru Miyamoto, a top executive at the company and the creator of many of Nintendo’s most celebrated games during the past three decades. Satoru Iwata, the company’s president when the Wii U was released, recognized these issues. Before his death in 2015, from complications related to cancer, he set in motion changes that have helped the company since. Mr. Iwata pushed the company to refine the Wii U’s design for the Switch, rather than pivot from them. The Switch comes with a small screen that can be attached directly to the controllers or remain separate and connect to a TV. People can play the machine as a hand-held device or as a more traditional console. “It is truly portable,” Mr. Kazdal said. Much of the marketing has focused on that versatility, an easy concept to convey. The console, Mr. Miyamoto said, combines “all of the different play styles we’ve explored through our products in the past.” The system features novelties of its own too: the detachable controllers allow two players to compete or collaborate without the need for additional hardware. “I became particularly interested in the Switch because of the controllers,” said Nele Steenput, a 30-year-old artist from Oxford, England. “It’s so much fun with a lot of people.” Mr. Iwata also planned a steady schedule of game releases, to help ensure that the console’s momentum continued in the months after its release. Breath of the Wild took the 30-year-old Zelda series into more open worlds. Other inventive games have followed, like ARMS, a boxing game in which characters pummel one another with elastic limbs that can be given different deadly appendages. In October, the company released Super Mario Odyssey, a game that, for the first time in the series’ history, took Mario to destinations that looked like real-world locations, like New York City. “We have deliberately maintained a pace of content that we were unable to achieve with the Wii U,” said Reginald Fils-Aimé, president of Nintendo of America. This output is being led by a new generation of young game designers overseen by Shinya Takahashi, a little-known executive who has recently taken over Nintendo’s hardware and software divisions. “While we were truly saddened by Iwata’s passing, it came at a time when new leaders were rising in the company,” Mr. Takahashi, 54, said. Even people like Mr. Miyamoto, 65, a leading figure at Nintendo since the 1980s, is ceding control at the company’s Japanese headquarters. “More and more I am trying to let the younger generation fully take the reins,” Mr. Miyamoto said. This younger generation has been carefully chosen; Mr. Miyamoto says he wants people who are more likely to create new kinds of play, rather than merely aim to perfect current ones. “I always look for designers who aren’t super-passionate game fans,” Mr. Miyamoto said. “I make it a point to ensure they’re not just a gamer, but that they have a lot of different interests and skill sets.” Some of the company’s current stars had no experience playing video games when they were hired. Kosuke Yabuki, a 37-year-old mentee of Mr. Miyamoto, said the company has not changed how products are made. “Our mission remains the same: to find unique ways to explore play,” he said. “The difference is that, perhaps, now is our time.” Maintaining this newfound momentum through 2018 presents a significant challenge, however. As the majority of Nintendo’s staunchest fans now own the console, the company must focus on attracting new believers, a difficulty when the company has announced no major releases from its own Mario and Zelda franchises to persuade buyers. That means Nintendo will need outside developers to provide critical support. Those developers have typically been cautious about supporting Nintendo’s machines, because the technology inside them is relatively distinct compared with those made by Microsoft and Sony, two main rivals. That makes it more expensive to build a game that works for all three brands. But with the Switch, Nintendo has worked hard to court support of major publishers such as Ubisoft, EA and Bethesda. In November, the Japanese game studio Square-Enix told investors that, in addition to researching which of its games could be brought to Nintendo’s system, it will also be “aggressively making games for Switch.” Nintendo has also been courting smaller game makers, referring to independent developers who bring their games to the Switch as “Nindies.” Some have already enjoyed success. Lizardcube, the Paris-based developer of Wonder Boy, has reported that the Switch version of its game outsold all other platform versions combined. Still, many players worry about the Switch’s prospects in the coming year and beyond. “I am worried about the longevity of the system over Nintendo’s penchant for abandoning things,” one Twitter user wrote this week, while canvassing views as to whether he should invest in the product. But Phil Harrison, a former vice president for the video game divisions at both Microsoft and Sony, said the last year reinforced an old and important lesson. “Never underestimate Nintendo,” he said.