 Q. A previous column explained how to download specific files from Google Photos, but I need to know how to upload a specific album to share with a family group. How do I do this? A. Google Photos can be set to automatically back up all the pictures you take on your smartphone or copy to your computer, so if you have this setting enabled, the pictures have already been uploaded to the online storage space that comes with your Google Account. You just need to select and sort the photos into the album you want to share before sending out a link to the family. Even if you are not using the automatic backup feature, you can manually upload selected photos you want to share online. If you have a folder of images on your computer that you want to upload to Google Photos through your web browser, log in at https://photos.google.com and drag pictures onto the browser window to transfer them. (As an alternative, you can click the Upload button at the top of the screen and navigate to the folder on your computer to add them.) On a smartphone or tablet without the automatic backup feature enabled, open the Google Photos app and tap the images you want to share. To place the uploaded photos into an album, select Sharing, and in the menu icon at the top, choose “Create new share.” In the desktop web browser, click on “Start a new share.” When the thumbnails of your uploaded images appear, choose the ones you want to add to the album. After you are finished, select the Next button and add the email addresses of the people you want to get a sharing link, and hit the Send button. If you would like a more guided approach instead, click the Assistant icon in the Google Photos app or browser window. Click Shared Album, choose the photos you want to use and click the Create button. On the next screen, give the album a name, click the Share button and add the email addresses of your recipients. If you have already set up a Google Family Group — a unit of up to six people managed by one member to share Google-based photos, calendars, Google Play purchases — you can select the Family Group option in the Google Photos Sharing menu to alert the others. If you want to change your sharing options, Google’s help guide has further instructions.