  Good Tuesday. Here’s what we’re watching: • Mark Zuckerberg’s first Congressional hearing is here. • Sprint and T-Mobile have restarted merger talks. • Wall Street continues to wade into the gun control debate. • The raid on Michael Cohen’s office and residence raises a number of issues. • The C.B.O. is still underestimating how bad the deficit is going to be. Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here. Congressional hearings focusing on corporate missteps often reveal little, in part because lawmakers lack the expertise and the executives taking questions are good at stone-walling. Still, Tuesday’s hearing turned out to be a serious attempt to grapple with the growing influence of a powerful company that is entwined in the lives of millions of Americans. Lawmakers, it became clear, no longer see Facebook and other large tech companies as mostly benign forces for innovation. In his responses, Mr. Zuckerberg was competent but notably did not reveal much that was new about how Facebook will respond to its enormous challenges. On balance, the hearing probably leaves Facebook and its peers on the back foot in three important ways. Legislation to rein in social media companies is now a possibility. Lawmakers now seem much more aware of how much power large technology companies have. This was encapsulated in questions posed by Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. He framed Facebook as a monopoly and brought up the possibility of regulating Facebook, asking Mr. Zuckerberg: “But you as a company welcome regulation?” Mr. Zuckerberg gave a response often heard from C.E.O.s: “I think if it’s the right regulation, then yes.” Senator Graham then secured something of a commitment from Mr. Zuckerberg to work with the Senate on what regulations are necessary. A Senate with a Republican majority may be less likely to pass legislation, but if the Democrats gain control, top senators from that party might push for new laws ahead of a potential run in 2020. Some of the most penetrating questions on Tuesday came from Kamala Harris, Democrat of California, and Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey. Recidivism may now be taken more seriously. One of the reasons that Facebook is under scrutiny is that it has been the source of several scandals. Patience has apparently worn thin in the Senate. Facebook has not convincingly explained why it took so long to reveal Cambridge Analytica’s misuse of the data of 87 million users. Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, sounded bewildered by that misstep: “You apologized for it. But you didn’t notify them. And do you think that you have an ethical obligation to notify 87 million Facebook users?” Facebook may now only be one big scandal away from a stringent government response. Large technology companies sense an economic threat. Mr. Zuckerberg made an intriguing comment that suggested Facebook could, in theory, offer a paid version, presumably to users who do not want ads or to share certain data with Facebook. He said: “There will always be a version of Facebook that will be free.” This suggests that Facebook has begun to think about how it can adapt to a situation in which it gets access to less data from users. In other words, it may be taking a threat to its business model seriously. The fact that Facebook’s stock rose through the hearing should not be taken as a sign that the company is in the clear. — Peter Eavis Investors certainly liked Mark Zuckerberg’s testimony on Capitol Hill Tuesday. Facebook’s shares rose 4.5 percent on the day. It was the strongest single-day performance for the stock since April 2016. After being down as much as 24 percent this year, Facebook is steadily clawing back ground. Tuesday’s gain left it down only 11.4 percent in 2018. — Matt Phillips Among the dominant themes of the hearing, and the past few weeks, has been whether Facebook needs to be regulated. In fact, Mr. Zuckerberg said he open to Facebook being regulated during his first interview after the Cambridge Analytica scandal. But some lawmakers expressed skepticism toward regulation during the hearing. Senator Dan Sullivan, Republican of Alaska, raised an important point about the impact of regulation: That it often benefits the biggest companies, at the expense smaller firms and startups. Here’s Senator Sullivan’s question to Mr. Zuckerberg: “Regulations can also cement the dominant power. Do you think that that’s a risk, given your influence, that if we regulate we’re actually going to regulate you into a position of cemented authority?” In other words, if the government decides to crack down on Facebook, could that end up holding back the next Facebook? Mr. Zuckerberg conceded that that would be a risk. That’s the question that Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina hit on and its a sensitive one for Facebook. In the weeks since the Cambridge Analytica scandal, many have said that Facebook can’t be fixed and needs to be broken up. On Tuesday, Mr.Graham asked Mr. Zuckerberg to name Facebook’s biggest competitor. Mr. Zuckerberg responded that Facebook has a lot of competitors. Then Mr. Graham pointed out that if a customer has a problem with the Ford they bought, they can buy a car from another auto maker. Here’s their back-and-forth. Mr. Graham asked: “Is there an alternative to Facebook?” Mr. Zuckerberg: “Well, we provide a number of diff...” Mr. Graham: “You don’t think that you have a monopoly?” Mr. Zuckerberg: “It certainly doesn’t feel like that to me.” The gap in knowledge about how Facebook’s business works was on display at times during Mr. Zuckerberg’s testimony. The company has faced questions about the possibility of creating a paid service that would allow users to opt-out of sharing their data or seeing advertisements. Mr. Zuckerberg insisted on Tuesday that there would always be a free version of Facebook, so that anyone in the world can afford to be part of its online community. At that point, Sentor Orrin G. Hatch, the Utah Republican, asked Mr. Zuckerberg how he could sustain a business without charging anything for it. “Sir, we run ads,” Mr. Zuckerberg explained. Mr. Hatch replied: “I see.” — Alan Rappeport Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, called Facebook and its role in society “extraordinary” and began the hearing by explaining why Facebook is being singled out and why Mr. Zuckerberg was asked to appear alone. He said the Cambridge Analytica situation underscored how Facebook can be used for nefarious reasons, saying it appeared “to be the result of people exploiting the tools you created to manipulate users’ information.” In an indication that he may support legislation for internet companies, Mr. Thune said, “In the past, many of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle have been willing to defer to tech companies’ efforts to regulate themselves. But this may be changing.” Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, who chairs the Judiciary Committee, said the tech industry “has a responsibility” to protect its users and said “the status quo no longer works.” — Cecilia Kang Mr. Zuckerberg is the only technology chief in the room, but it is clear that members of Congress are treating him as a stand-in for the entirety of Silicon Valley. Mr. Grassley called the entire tech industry to account, saying “the tech industry has an obligation to…restore the public’s trust.” Mr. Nelson put it even more bluntly: “If you and other social media companies do not get your act in order, none of us are going to have any privacy.” In his opening statement, Mr. Zuckerberg, who is 33, made a point to remind Congress that he was young when this all began. “I started Facebook when I was in college,” Mr. Zuckerberg said. This is a recurring theme for Mr. Zuckerberg—in many recent interviews, he has referred to starting Facebook in his Harvard dorm room. And perhaps it’s wise to keep bringing up the fact that Mr. Zuckerberg is much younger than most of the business executives who come before Congress. But the strategy could also backfire. After all, Mr. Zuckerberg is a long way from his dorm room—on paper, he has been a billionaire for more than a decade—and by reminding lawmakers of his youth, he could also lead them to question whether he’s mature enough to handle such enormous responsibilities and whether Silicon Valley needs more adult supervision in the way of additional federal regulation. — Kevin Roose That’s when Mark Zuckerberg will testify before the Senate Judiciary and Commerce committees; you can watch here. In his prepared testimony, published yesterday, he apologized for not doing more to stop fake news. Here’s where lawmakers are likely to press him: • Privacy, and whether 2 billion Facebook users can consider their data safe. • The reach of Russia’s election chicanery, and how slow the company was to publicize it. (According to a Columbia researcher, Peter Eavis notes, Facebook is still understating that reach. The company disagrees.) • The F.T.C.’s 2011 consent decree with the company, and whether it was violated in the Cambridge Analytica scandal. (Facebook says not.) • Political bias and violent radicalization (an especially big topic in countries like Myanmar). The bigger point: Andrew writes in his latest column that, however harshly lawmakers question Mr. Zuckerberg, the public still seems willing to be hand Facebook personal information. More from the column: Elsewhere in Facebook news: Wildlife preservation advocates complained to the S.E.C. that the company is serving ads on the pages of wildlife traffickers. Bank of America will stop lending money to gun manufacturers that make military-inspired firearms for civilian use, such as the AR-15-style rifles that have been used in multiple mass shootings, a company executive said Tuesday. “We want to contribute in any way we can to reduce these mass shootings,” Anne M. Finucane, vice chairwoman at the Bank of America, said on Bloomberg TV. The bank works with “just a handful of manufacturers,” with whom it has had “intense conversations over the last few months,” Ms. Finucane said. Their reactions to the new policy have been “mixed,” she said. Bank of America would not name any of the gun manufacturers it works with, but its clients include well-known, publicly held brands. The bank will wind down its relationships with the companies that choose to continue making AR-15-style rifles and similar guns. For now, Bank of America will continue to offer banking services to firearms retailers. Asking gun shops to stop selling certain types of handguns or long guns “gets into civil liberties” and is “a ways off,” Ms. Finucane said. Last month Citigroup announced that it would require business customers to restrict certain types of firearms sales. And earlier this month BlackRock said it plans to offer new funds that exclude gun makers or sellers is the latest prominent step by a financial firm to offer some support to gun control. — Tiffany Hsu Shares in Sprint leapt 17 percent on Tuesday after the WSJ reported on the restarted talks. Shares in T-Mobile were up 5.7 percent as well. Let’s recap the tortured history of the telecom merger that hasn’t quite been able to cross the finish line (which I’ve covered multiple times over the years): • Sprint pursued T-Mobile in 2011, but lost out in the end to AT&amp;T — which failed to complete the deal after the Justice Department sued to block that combination. • In 2014, Sprint, now owned by Masayoshi Son’s SoftBank, held talks with T-Mobile, but eventually broke off the discussions after Washington regulators hinted strongly that they would move to block a union. • The two companies tried again in 2017, but this time the talks — which culminated over dinner at Mr. Son’s home in Tokyo — fell apart because of disagreements about control over the combined company. But there’s little surprise that the companies wouldn’t give up on a deal. Mr. Son pursued Sprint in the first place with the idea of merging it with T-Mobile, creating a stronger competitor to Verizon and AT&amp;T. But since SoftBank’s acquisition, Sprint has continued to labor under an enormous debt load and has struggled to catch up to T-Mobile as the most popular low-cost carrier. Sprint's operating income declined over the course of last year to $648 million in its fourth quarter. It also has reported losses in all but two quarters since 2015 (its $7.2 billion profit in the fourth quarter arose from the Republican tax overhaul). T-Mobile, by contrast, has done better, having gained customers by emphasizing its low prices and network improvements. Its operating income in the fourth quarter came to $950 million, while its net income totaled $2.7 billion (another beneficiary of the tax cuts). — Michael J. de la Merced The report in The New York Times that the F.B.I. seized records from the office of President Trump’s longtime lawyer Michael D. Cohen raises a host of issues about how prosecutors might be able to review those materials. One challenge will be dealing with the attorney-client privilege, which shields communications between lawyers and clients from any outside review. Under Justice Department guidelines, when a lawyer’s office is search there must be procedures in place “to ensure that privileged materials are not improperly viewed, seized or retained.” One means to deal with privilege issues is to put in place a “taint team,” consisting of agents and government attorneys who are not part of the underlying investigation to review the seized materials to determine what is arguably privileged. Once that determination is made, Mr. Cohen can argue that privileged materials should be returned because they are protected. Despite President Trump’s tweet that “the attorney-client privilege is dead,” the protection remains in place. But there is an important way around the privilege that the Justice Department may pursue. Under a doctrine called the crime-fraud exception, communications between a client and lawyer designed to assist the client to engage in a pending or future crime are not protected by the privilege. The government would not have to prove a crime to avoid the privilege, only that there is enough evidence to support a reasonable belief that an otherwise privileged communication was for the purpose of committing a criminal or fraudulent act. In fact, under the Supreme Court’s decision in United States v. Zolin, prosecutors could ask a judge to review the communications privately to decide whether they may yield evidence of a potential crime or fraud. This is a slow process, likely to drag out for months. But don’t be surprised to see the Justice Department claiming that communications with Mr. Cohen were made for a criminal or fraudulent purpose – whatever that might be. — Peter J. Henning An interesting dissenter: One critic of Mr. Trump’s contention that the Cohen raids violated attorney-client privilege is George Conway, who’s of counsel at Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &amp; Katz — and the husband of Kellyanne Conway. (For non-lawyers: Mr. Conway’s link points to the Justice Department’s policies for conducting searches of lawyers.) The Congressional Budget Office now says that by 2027, the United States’ budget deficit will be $1.6 trillion larger than it previously expected, thanks in part to President Trump’s tax overhaul, which sharply cuts revenues. But close observers of the Treasury bond market — where Uncle Sam will have to turn to borrow the money it needs to cover those budget gaps — say it will doubtless be much higher. Goldman Sachs economists point out that the C.B.O.’s projections only extrapolate discretionary spending increases through 2019 fiscal year, whereas the bank’s analysis points to more spending through 2021 fiscal year, raising the Goldman’s deficit projections higher. Elsewhere, Jefferies economists noted that the analysis from the C.B.O. doesn’t take into account the Federal Reserve’s gradual reduction of the amount of government bonds it is holding, which means that the Treasury has to replace the Fed as a buyer. All else equal, the disappearance of a buyer like the Fed — which can create as much money as it needs — along with surging supply of Treasury borrowing needed to cover deepening deficits should add up one thing: Sharply higher interest rates. — Matt Phillips Critics’ corner:  The Peterson Foundation said, “It’s clear that lawmakers have added significantly more debt on top of an already unsustainable trajectory.” Harm Bandholz of UniCredit said, “The C.B.O. strongly contradicts the administration’s claim that the stimulus will pay for itself.” • A year before Apollo Global Management lent millions of dollars to Kushner Companies, Jared Kushner reportedly approached its co-founder Josh Harris about leading the Office of Management and Budget. (The Guardian) • Investors are looking for a “Kudlow put” or a “Powell put.” (The Upshot) • Russian markets, bonds and the ruble plunged yesterday after the U.S. imposed new sanctions. (NYT) • Gov. Rick Scott’s run for Senate in Florida could hurt Democrats nationwide: It’s an expensive market, he’s rich, and he’s ready to spend. (Politico) • Qatar may be bringing President Trump around to its point of view on the blockade against it. (NYT) Gary Shteyngart’s New Yorker profile of Mike Novogratz — hard-partying financier turned accidental cryptocurrency evangelist — is worth a read. Some notable lines: • “Some of Novogratz’s fellow hedge funders have questioned his grasp of the finer details of his trading strategies. ‘He acts like a visionary, but at heart he’s still a salesman,’ one manager told me.” • Novogratz is said to consider himself “halfway between center-left and progressive,” and “During my lunch with him at the Mercer Kitchen, he told me, ‘I’ve always said I’d run for office if I had a five-year period in my life where really I felt, like, Hey, my behavior is laudable.’” Public negotiations between the corporate siblings have intensified. Viacom’s counterproposal — 0.68 of a CBS share for every Viacom share, or $14.7 billion; CBS had offered 0.55, or $11.9 billion — is likely to be rejected. Price may be less of a sticking point, however, than CBS’s insistence on keeping its chief operating officer, Joe Ianniello, in the No. 2 spot after a merger. That’s the job Viacom wants for its C.E.O., Bob Bakish. Michael has heard that this is a serious disagreement, with little movement toward a compromise as yet. • The Justice Department has reportedly approved Bayer’s $56 billion purchase of Monsanto after the companies agreed to sell more businesses. (WSJ) • Ant Financial is reportedly raising another $9 billion, making it the world’s biggest unicorn. (WSJ) • How Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul stock exchange — current value listed: $500 billion — is preparing to host Aramco, at a valuation of up to $2 trillion. (WSJ) • Uber has agreed to buy Jump, a maker of electric (sorry, “pedal-assist”) bikes after the two tested a bike-sharing program in January. (NYT) • Elliott Management has raised its stake in Telecom Italia to 9 percent ahead of a vote at the company’s board on May 4. (FT) • I.P.O. corner: Why the San Mateo Superior Court, Calif., hears so many cases about listings. Regulations might not be responsible for a drop in U.S. publicly traded companies. And a plan to turn Eminem royalties into a publicly traded company has collapsed. The Information and Social Capital just released their third survey of diversity at the big tech investment firms. Key findings: • Canvas Ventures and Kirsten Green’s Forerunner Ventures tied for first place on The Information’s V.C. Diversity Index. Tied for last: Tiger Global Management and Slow Ventures. • The number of women in senior positions at U.S. venture firms rose to 14.2 percent last year, from 10.7 percent. The percentage of Hispanic decision makers rose to 2.3 percent from 1.9 percent, while that of black senior leaders stayed roughly flat at just over 1 percent. On April 14 at 5 p.m., hear from Chobani’s founder and C.E.O., Hamdi Ulukaya, who has resurrected economies in two communities and made headlines for his leadership practices. He’ll be interviewed by David Gelles for a live version of the Corner Office column. DealBook readers get $10 off tickets. • Galaxy Digital, the cryptocurrency start-up run by Mike Novogratz, has hired a C.O.O.: Richard Kim, most recently a London-based V.P. at Goldman Sachs. (Bloomberg) • Glencore’s C.E.O., Ivan Glasenberg, has left Rusal’s board after the Russian aluminum producer was sanctioned by the U.S. (CNBC) • Coinbase has hired Rachael Horwitz, formerly head of marketing at Spark Capital, as its first V.P. of communications. (Recode) • The C.E.O. of Gizmodo Media Group, Raju Narisetti, has left, as Univision reportedly considers deep cuts. (The Daily Beast) • The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is seeking a record fine against Wells Fargo for abuses in auto insurance and mortgage lending, unnamed sources said. (Reuters) • Investors from the Middle East and Asia have offered about $25 billion to buy an expanded version of FIFA’s Club World Cup. (NYT) • The S.E.C. has widened the definitions of “micromanaging” and business relevance, making it harder for shareholders to put up proxy resolutions. (WaPo) • Elon Musk likes it in Adelaide, but the Australian city hasn’t fully transformed manufacturing decline into technological progress. (NYT) • WPP is expected to publish the findings of its Martin Sorrell investigation next week. (Reuters) • Wynn Resorts has created a culture and community department after its sexual misconduct scandal. (WSJ) • Pressure is mounting on Deutsche Bank’s chairman, Paul Achleitner, over the messy sacking of John Cryan and the rush to replace him with Christian Sewing. (FT) • The European Court of Justice ruled that the French government had the right to ban some transport services, including Uber, without notifying European officials first. (FT) We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.