 WASHINGTON — President Trump could soon promote Peter Navarro, a trade policy adviser, to a more powerful position in the White House, elevating a longtime trade skeptic who has found himself sidelined by more pro-trade voices inside the White House. Mr. Navarro’s ascendance may signal that the balance of power is shifting toward those who have backed Mr. Trump’s get-tough approach to trade policy and away from those who have sought to restrain it. The president has agreed to promote Mr. Navarro to assistant to the president from his current role as deputy assistant, giving him more access to top strategy meetings, said two trade experts close to the White House, who requested anonymity to discuss plans that weren’t yet public. Natalie Strom, a spokeswoman, said the White House had no personnel announcements to make at this time. Mr. Navarro’s promotion was first reported by Inside U.S. Trade. In December 2016, before taking office, Mr. Trump created the new office of the White House National Trade Council and appointed Mr. Navarro as its director. The creation of the office suggested the new body would have a position on par with the powerful National Security Council and National Economic Council. But in April, Mr. Navarro’s National Trade Council was eliminated, and he was renamed head of the Office of Trade and Manufacturing Policy. In September, that office was moved into the National Economic Council and placed under the purview of its director, Gary D. Cohn, a former Goldman Sachs investor whose more conventional views on trade have contrasted sharply with those of Mr. Navarro. The White House said then that reorganization was part of an effort to streamline protocols in the West Wing, but it was widely viewed as sidelining the influence of Mr. Navarro, once a primary adviser to the president. With Mr. Navarro’s promotion, the White House is again considering making his Office of Trade and Manufacturing Policy independent from the National Economic Council. White House trade policy has been rocked in recent weeks by the departure of Rob Porter, a former aide accused of domestic violence, who had organized regular meetings for the trade staff. John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff who imposed order on the West Wing through a strict hierarchy that left Mr. Navarro out of high-level meetings, has also been beset by rumors that he has lost standing in the White House over a series of recent negative events. Amid the tumult, Mr. Navarro has been able to leverage a close personal relationship with the president to gain more access, a third trade expert close to the White House said. It is unclear what new responsibilities Mr. Navarro’s promotion could bring, or whether the president could change his mind. But the biggest change for Mr. Navarro is that he may once again gain more access to top meetings — and to the president himself. Mr. Navarro presided over an early period on the campaign trail and in the White House, during which President Trump appeared poised to fulfill his most aggressive promises on trade, including ripping up trade deals that he had criticized as bad for American companies and workers and imposing tariffs on imports. Mr. Navarro entered the White House with multiple trade actions written and ready for the president’s signature, including a directive to withdraw from the North American Free Trade Agreement, known as Nafta. As The New York Times has previously reported, on at least three occasions in the president’s first year in office, Mr. Navarro’s attempts to withdraw the United States from Nafta were blocked by more pro-trade advisers, headed by Mr. Cohn. The president did sign another directive authored by Mr. Navarro, pulling the United States out of a multinational trade deal known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership. But other efforts by Mr. Navarro to impose tariffs on steel imports and withdraw from a free-trade agreement with South Korea were blocked, leading some to question whether the president had abandoned his promise to take a more aggressive approach to trade than his predecessors. As Mr. Kelly imposed order on the White House by limiting the president’s access to some advisers, Mr. Navarro’s influence was reduced. Mr. Navarro was required to copy Mr. Cohn, his new superior, on all emails. He was absent from some high-level strategy meetings on trade, as well as the president’s trip to China, a focus of Mr. Navarro’s. Supporters and opponents of Mr. Navarro describe this as a concerted effort by more pro-trade factions to keep the president from hearing Mr. Navarro’s views, which could have goaded Mr. Trump into more aggressive action. Mr. Navarro is a Ph.D. economist and a former professor at the University of California, Irvine, but some of his ideas on trade have been criticized by mainstream economists. While most economists say Nafta has benefited the United States economy on the whole, Mr. Navarro has sharply criticized the deal. He has denounced some foreign investments as “conquest by purchase” and argued for retracting global supply chains back within the United States’ borders. From a nearby post in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, Mr. Navarro spent months focusing on trade measures that were less in the spotlight, including expanding provisions that require the government to buy American goods, and carrying out a government-wide review of the defense industry. In the last few months, however, the Trump administration has ramped up its trade actions. The White House announced tariffs on washing machines and solar cells and modules in January. The administration is also on the cusp of announcing tariffs or other restrictions on imports of steel and aluminum, as well as measures to penalize China for unfair trade. In an expanded post, Mr. Navarro may be particularly influential on combating China. Mr. Navarro has authored books including “Death by China” and “The Coming China Wars,” which advocated the type of aggressive trade stance toward China that is now widely echoed by officials in the Trump administration.