 The British poet Alexander Pope once wrote that “to err is human; to forgive, divine.” Federal judges deciding the sentences of two white-collar defendants this month had to weigh whether requests for forgiveness and professions of remorse were enough to reduce the punishment. Martin Shkreli, nickname the Pharma Bro for raising the price of a decades-old drug more than 50-fold, was convicted on three counts of securities fraud and conspiracy. At his sentencing, a tearful Mr. Shkreli told the court that he was there “because of my gross, stupid and negligent mistakes.” Judge Kiyo A. Matsumoto of the Federal District Court in Brooklyn was sympathetic, but she rejected Mr. Shkreli’s request for a sentence of 12 to 18 months. Instead, Judge Matsumoto imposed a seven-year prison term, finding that Mr. Shkreli had engaged in an “egregious multitude of lies.” Jeffrey A. Wertkin, a former Justice Department lawyer, pleaded guilty in November to trying to sell secret complaints that he stole before leaving the government to companies named as defendants under a whistle-blower statute. His attorney asserted in a court filing that there was “little doubt that it was nonetheless an aberrant detour — one that he will never repeat.” Rather than the proposed sentence of a year and a day, however, Judge Maxine M. Chesney of Federal District Court in San Francisco gave him a 30-month prison term. A long-held criticism of the sentences of white-collar defendants was that they got off easy compared with other criminals because the violations did not appear to be as threatening. That has changed. Claims that a monthslong pattern of misconduct was merely aberrational or that the defendants recognize the error of their ways now often fall on deaf ears. Mr. Shkreli said he had “wanted to grow my stature and my reputation.” Mr. Wertkin said that when he had switched jobs, “my depression and anxiety overwhelmed me in a manner I could never have anticipated.” The Justice Department took a much less sanguine view of their conduct. In pushing for a 15-year prison term, a federal prosecutor in Brooklyn told Judge Matsumoto that Mr. Shkreli “wants everyone to believe that he is a genius, a whiz kid.” To counter Mr. Wertkin’s claims, the Justice Department argued that “there is no reason to believe that the defendant’s diagnosis is anything more than narcissism and greed.” When fashioning a sentence, federal judges are required by law to consider how it will “afford adequate deterrence to criminal conduct.” Whether long prison sentences for white-collar criminals are truly a deterrent is an open question. There have been many high-profile cases of securities fraud, yet Mr. Shkreli’s campaign to enhance his standing hardly seems to have been affected by punishments imposed on others — assuming he even noticed how law enforcement might view his conduct. Mr. Wertkin’s elaborate scheme, which began before he started a new job paying him $450,000 per year, included creating a false identity and using a disposable cellphone to try to sell a secret complaint to the company named as a defendant for over $300,000 that resulted in his arrest in California. He then returned to his office in Washington, D.C., to destroy evidence shortly after being set free on bond. One would think that as a former Justice Department lawyer, he would have been deterred by the threat of prison — but instead, he blithely ignored the potential punishment. White-collar defendants also stand little chance of being in positions to commit a similar offense again. Mr. Shkreli will be away from the markets for the next few years, and investors are unlikely to trust him with their money anytime soon. Mr. Wertkin will lose his law license, and there is little chance he will be allowed to work as a lawyer again. Still, the protestations of family and friends about the defendant’s good character often conflict with the evidence of these white-collar crimes. Mr. Wertkin’s wife told the court about how much he cares for their children and asked that he be sentenced to tour the country telling lawyers his tale as a warning not to stray. That might be a worthwhile endeavor, but such a sentence might send the message that the defendant had gamed the system, unlike the ordinary street criminals who frequently receive long prison terms. The sentences meted out to Mr. Shkreli and Mr. Wertkin show that federal judges will not necessarily accept that claims of contrition merit less time in prison.