 Good Friday. Here’s what we’re watching: • Investors should get ready to feel “a little pain.” • Is the inflation scare over? • Hiring slowed in March. • The U.S.-China trade fight is getting hotter. • The Treasury Department sanctioned Russian mogul Oleg Deripaska. Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here. President Trump has supported combative trade policies for years, and in recent months, his administration has begun to pursue them. The actions have weighed on the stock prices of large international corporations, and if implemented, could hurt their bottom lines. But global companies mostly have not detailed the potential impact of Mr. Trump’s trade policies. Will that now change? With first-quarter earnings imminent, and tensions with China escalating, shareholders may want companies to make specific disclosures. The companies may be tempted to say little. After all, Mr. Trump’s trade restrictions have merely been threatened, and may not occur if deals are struck. But in the past, companies have refreshed their outlooks in the face of circumstantial economic and geopolitical events, like the Gulf War. And investors will likely press firms to estimate the impact of a trade war and describe the measures they will take to protect their businesses. Boeing, Apple and General Motors are among the companies that will come under the spotlight. All do considerable sales in China. Apple and G.M. rely on manufacturing facilities in the country. Investors will have plenty of questions. How much might revenue and profits fall in a trade war? What would you do if your supply chains got interrupted? What sort of contingency measures are you readying? What would you do if you became the target of campaigns that aimed to stop Chinese consumers buying your products, like the one last year directed at South Korean products? Executives will no doubt have good arguments for why their businesses won’t be hurt much. China’s airlines will remain reliant on a steady supply of Boeing’s aircraft for a long time. The facilities in China that make G.M. and Apple products are big employers. And since the proposed tariffs most likely won’t be in effect by the time first-quarter earnings are announced, companies will probably be able to get away with some generalities. Still, the prospect of a trade war raises questions about the adequacy of corporate disclosure. Those of G.M., contained in its latest annual report, seem quite detailed. They offer quite specific warnings about the risks of doing business in China, and the company even mentions the possibility of trade agreements falling apart. But financial reports from Boeing and Apple arguably have less on potential problems in China and trade disputes. Boeing’s annual report did mention tariffs and embargoes as threats. But the report, released in February, also sounded a bullish note on the global economy that now almost sounds like it was from a different era: Will such language remain in Boeing’s reports? - Peter Eavis For years, investors had a singular focus on the Federal Reserve and its plans to raise rates. Any indication that the Fed could move more aggressively than expected to tighten monetary policies and stocks would pull back. Now the Fed has company in sending jitters through the market: Trade. A one-two punch from the White House and the Fed pushed stocks on Wall Street down Friday. The S.&amp;P. 500 and the Dow Jones industrial average both finished off more than 2 percent. Markets began to slide at the start of trading after President Trump’s threat on Thursday to heap fresh tariffs on China. Investors took little comfort in statements from the administration’s top economic policymakers, Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary. Both men sought to tamp down the contentious back-and-forth between the two economic giants. Comments from Mr. Powell in the early Friday afternoon added to the unease. In a speech in Chicago, Mr. Powell highlighted the strength of the United States economic recovery and gave little indication that the Fed planned to deviate from its gradual path of lifting interest rates. President Trump, in a radio interview that was taped on Thursday and aired on Friday, acknowledged his approach to China could cause “a little pain” to financial markets but that it would be worth it in the long run. On WABC Radio’s “Bernie &amp; Sid in the Morning” show, Mr. Trump said: The president also took to Twitter to defend his approach to trade policy. Mr. Trump, in a tweet, criticized both China and the World Trade Organization, saying that the Chinese “get tremendous perks and advantages, especially over the U.S. Does anybody think this is fair. We were badly represented. The WTO is unfair to U.S.” That followed another early morning tweet, in which Mr. Trump boasted that the new metals tariffs he has put into effect on China and other nations had not hurt American consumers as his critics predicted. Some context here: The price of aluminum per pound has been falling since February, a decline that started before the tariffs were imposed. Mr. Trump’s decision to exempt Canada, which supplied more than half of America’s aluminum imports in 2016, has also helped to soften the blow from tariffs, companies say. In response to a potential new set of U.S. tariffs on $100 billion worth of Chinese goods, Beijing said in a briefing on Friday that it would “immediately fight back with a major response.” More from what a representative for China’s Ministry of Commerce said: The briefing — amid a Chinese holiday — signals the latest instance of saber-rattling between the U.S. and China on trade. But was Mr. Trump’s announcement on Thursday just a bluff? Even his advisers aren’t sure. The Chinese official said that the two sides can’t negotiate under the current conditions. And in an interview with Bloomberg on Friday, Larry Kudlow — who has been national economic adviser for just under a week — said he could not predict when talks would begin. He added: But China has reasons to think it could win a trade war. (Worth noting: U.S. tariffs wouldn’t bite until after a two-month comment period.) More companies, like Cargill, are getting jumpy. Some fear the tensions could kill Qualcomm’s bid for NXP Semiconductor. Jacob Frenkel, the chairman of JPMorgan Chase’s international business, is worried, too: He said the hostilities could be “the greatest danger to the world economy,” but aren’t at a war level yet. The Economist says that the president’s comments “do not suggest he is ready to sue for peace.” Meanwhile, the White House hopes to announce a preliminary Nafta deal this month after revising some of its more aggressive demands. Reaction of the day, from Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska: Earlier this year, stocks sold off after the jobs report for January showed a 2.9 percent annual increase in wages, a relatively strong rise. Investors feared that a sustained increase in earnings could prompt consumers to buy more goods and services, pushing up prices in the process. Concerns receded after February’s report showed a 2.6 percent jump in wages, and March’s rise of 2.7 percent is not likely to stir up more worries. But as they gauge wage pressures, analysts also pay close attention to the forces that indirectly affect wages. One of those is, of course, the number of additional jobs the economy is creating. March’s gain of 103,000 jobs was below economists’ forecasts and about half the monthly average this year. That weakness will no doubt reduce inflation fears still further. The March report contained data that could do even more to quell investors’ nerves over inflation. While the report revised February’s gain higher to 326,000 jobs from 313,000, it sharply reduced the January figure to 176,000 from 239,000. The January revision prompted Jim Vogel, of FTN Financial, to write: — Peter Eavis The United States added jobs for its 90th straight month in March, an unprecedented run of growth for the economy, but at a much slower pace than in March. The headline numbers  • 103,000 jobs were added last month. Wall Street economists had expected an increase of about 185,000, according to Bloomberg. • The unemployment rate was 4.1 percent for the sixth straight month. • Average earnings rose by 8 cents an hour and are up 2.7 percent over the past year. • Estimates of February’s job growth were revised upward, but January’s figure was revised sharply downward. The net result was a loss of 50,000 jobs relative to prior estimates. The takeaways • Wage growth remains weaker than most economists would expect when unemployment is so low. • The manufacturing sector has posted solid job gains over the past year, and that growth continued in March, when American factories added 22,000 jobs. But mounting trade tensions with China could threaten the sector’s rebound in the months ahead. • Perhaps the biggest surprise in the blockbuster February report was the surge of workers into the labor force. That flood of new workers partly reversed in March, when the labor force shrank by 158,000 people. There’s a lot to quote from Anthony Scaramucci’s meal with Edward Luce of the FT — held at the Hunt and Fish Club, the Midtown Manhattan restaurant that the onetime investor owns, naturally. So we’ll have to limit ourselves to just a few selections: — Michael de la Merced Prominent among the Russian oligarchs and businesses sanctioned by the Treasury Department on Friday is Oleg Deripaska, the billionaire known for his jet-setting, his consistent presence at the World Economic Forum in Davos — and his ties to Vladimir Putin (and, before a falling out, Paul Manafort). Mr. Deripaska is associated with aluminum producers like EN+ Group, which went public in London late year, and Rusal, as well as the commercial vehicle maker GAZ Group and energy producer EuroSibEnergo. All those companies were also sanctioned for being controlled or owned directly or indirectly by Mr. Deripaska. Here’s what the Treasury Department said about the move against the businessman: — Michael de la Merced Andrew’s take: A favorite Wall Street parlor game is whether the JPMorgan Chase C.E.O. would run for president in 2020. Mr. Dimon’s latest annual letter increased that chatter, touching on immigration and political polarization. He praised some of President Trump’s policies (on tougher trade negotiations, on taxes). But his stances on deregulation and on social issues likely mean that he would have to run as an independent — and history hasn’t been kind to third-party candidates. Peter Eavis adds: The JPMorgan chief also homed in on regulations of bank liquidity, or access to cash and equivalents. He contended that liquidity requirements are higher now — which he favors — but are also more rigid and could impinge on lending. But the argument is flawed, in part because banks that have less liquidity aren’t in a position to lend. The investment behemoth’s plan to offer new funds that exclude gun makers or sellers is the latest prominent step by a financial firm to offer some support to gun control. (And with $6.3 trillion under management, the firm’s actions carry enormous weight.) The products include: • A new exchange-traded fund that focuses on favorable environmental, social and governance (E.S.G.) standards and excludes firearms-related companies. BlackRock will update other E.S.G. funds to exclude them, too. • A bond-focused E.T.F. excluding gun-related companies. • New strategies available through 401(k) plans that track five major indexes, including the S.&amp;P. 500, but screen out firearms sellers and makers. Walmart, Kroger and Dicks Sporting Goods, all of whom have now set some limits on gun sales, will still count as gun-related. Critic’s corner: Rob Cox of Breakingviews writes, “By getting out early, BlackRock makes clear to those young people lobbying for tighter gun laws — who it hopes will be customers for decades to come — that it has something for them.” Here’s the DealBook tally of financial firms that have announced concrete moves addressing gun control: Citigroup, Amalgamated, BlackRock. (Have we missed one? Let us know.) • President Trump’s attacks on Amazon arise from his anger at Jeff Bezos, unnamed people close to the White House say. (WSJ) • The president dispensed with a “boring” speech on tax to denounce immigration. (NYT) • E.P.A. officials were reassigned, demoted or requested new jobs after raising concerns about Scott Pruitt, unnamed sources said. Senior White House officials say the agency chief’s fate is uncertain given ethical questions about his housing (he reportedly fell behind on a lease from a lobbyist), staffing and travel expenses. • Mick Mulvaney has complained that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau engages in “wasteful spending” — but gave his hires big raises. (NYT) • Mr. Trump denied knowing of a $130,000 payment his lawyer made to Stormy Daniels. (WaPo) • The administration and California officials are expected to try to settle a fight over car emissions standards. (NYT) • At an NYT event, Sally Yates, the former acting attorney general, said Mr. Trump was breaking democratic norms. (NYT) If users wanted to opt out of data-driven advertising, they would have to pay, Sheryl Sandberg told NBC in one of many interviews yesterday. (They can’t, as yet.) Still, Ms. Sandberg told Bloomberg that some advertisers had cut spending and admitted that the network faced a challenge in reassuring them. The California public pension fund CALSTRS also wants more detail on how Facebook is protecting user data. (Its investment chief has deleted his account.) Mark Zuckerberg said yesterday that Facebook would apply tough new E.U. data-protection rules worldwide. But some analysts say that the worst may be over for investors. Elsewhere in Facebook: The company has put on hold a request for hospitals to share anonymized patient data for a research project. It has been accredited by the Media Ratings Council for the first of three rounds of ad impression auditing. Civic groups in Myanmar said Mr. Zuckerberg had exaggerated what Facebook was doing to stop incitement of violence there. • Tesla’s Model 3 impressed Jim Stewart. Will it win over enough other consumers to lift the carmaker’s fortunes? (NYT) • Google promised to increase office security in the wake of the YouTube shooting, and changes may come to other Silicon Valley campuses. (NYT) • Didi Chuxing is open for business — and taking on Uber — in Mexico. (Reuters) • Delta said that a cyberattack on the company that ran its website’s chat function may have compromised thousands of customers’ credit card data. (WSJ) Cryptocurrency corner: South Korean prosectors detained the heads of Coinnest and another exchange, on accusations of embezzling from customers. Coinbase is going into venture capital. The former C.E.O. of Mt. Gox, the first big failed Bitcoin exchange, is no longer a believer. Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has met with a slew of companies during his U.S. tour, including Amazon and the augmented-reality start-up Magic Leap. But the movie business was a focus. “Entertainment is the new oil for Saudi Arabia,” the head of the kingdom’s entertainment authority told the WSJ. (Diversifying away from the old oil is the crown prince’s stated mission.) AMC Entertainment has announced plans to open the kingdom’s first movie theater in over 30 years. The crown prince is hoping for a Disney theme park, too. The Information has more, and says the Saudis are largely following a Chinese playbook. • Nine West, the U.S. shoe seller, reportedly could file for bankruptcy protection as soon as today, with a plan to sell its main brand to Authentic Brands Group. (Reuters) • Blackstone plans a $2.3 billion bid for the Spanish hotelier Hispania. (Reuters) • The investment firm Kimmeridge Energy Management has built an 8.1 percent stake in Carrizo Oil &amp; Gas and wants the driller to consider selling itself, or at least some assets. (WSJ) • Domo, a Utah-based business software company, is reportedly preparing to file confidentially for an I.P.O. (Recode) • Instacart has raised another $150 million from existing investors like Coatue Management. (Axios) • Takeda Pharmaceutical might bid for Shire, its C.E.O., Christophe Weber, told some analysts at a meeting last week. I investors and the media weren’t invited. (Bloomberg) • Steve Jurvetson appears to have founded a new venture capital firm, Future Ventures, after resigning from DFJ after reportedly lying about an unidentified matter. (Recode) • Deutsche Bank’s co-head of investment banking and global head of markets, Garth Ritchie, is reportedly considering leaving. And Matt Zames, formerly JPMorgan’s chief operating officer, has reportedly been contacted about becoming the German lender’s next C.E.O. • Skadden named 14 new partners, including in its M.&amp;A., litigation and antitrust practices. (Skadden) • WageWorks, a provider of employee-benefits services, replaced its C.E.O., Joseph L. Jackson, C.F.O. and general counsel, and said it needed to restate financial results from the past two years. (WSJ) • Anthony Scaramucci, the former White House communications director, has been dabbling in the film business and has a credit in Al Pacino’s latest movie. (NYT) • Target agreed to revise hiring guidelines at its stores, after complaints that it considered old or very minor criminal records in a way that disproportionately affected black and Hispanic applicants. (NYT) • I.S.S. and Glass Lewis are recommending that G.E. address accounting issues by firing K.P.M.G., its auditor of 109 years. (WSJ) • Solar panels are everywhere, but renewable energy still accounts for barely 12 percent of electricity consumed globally. (NYT) • The fashion industry, which employs an overwhelmingly female staff and focuses on female consumers and audiences, reported one of Britain’s worst gender pay gaps. (NYT) • Memories of a long-distant boom have left Japan with a peculiarly potent version of 1980s nostalgia. (NYT) We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.