 Q. I work for a school that uses Google apps, including Gmail. Although the mail address is @myschool.com, it is a Google account, and I use the Google Calendar almost exclusively. I also have a personal Gmail account, but I almost never use the calendar. I’m retiring in June, and I’d like to get all the old and upcoming appointments, events, birthdays — everything — moved to my personal Google calendar before my school access ends. Is this possible?  A. Copying all the events from the school’s Google calendar may be possible, but check with the technical administrator or person in charge of the school calendar to see if your account has permission to do so, or if you can sync the school calendar to your personal calendar. As Google notes in its Calendar help guide, “If you use Google Calendar through your work, school or other organizations, you may not have the ability to export events.” If you are allowed to export events, log into your school account on the web browser on your work computer and open Google Calendar. If you are using the “classic” view, go the left side of the page to the My Calendars area and find the name of the calendar you want to export. Click the menu area to the right of the calendar’s name to open Calendar settings, and then choose “Export this calendar.” For those using Google’s “new” design for the calendar, go to the My Calendars section on the left side of the screen, click the three-dot Options menu next to the calendar name and select “Settings and Sharing.” On the Calendar Settings box on the next screen, click Export Calendar. When you export the calendar, Google downloads a file to your computer. This file is in the .ics format, but may be delivered in a .zip archive that you must double-click to open first. When you are ready to import the file, log into your personal Gmail account and open the Calendar from the Apps icon on the right side of the window. In the classic view, click the gear-shaped Settings icon on the top-right side of the window and select Settings. On the next screen, click the Calendars tab, then the Import Calendar link part of the way down the page. Click the Choose File button, navigate to the .ics file of events from the other calendar and select Import. If you are using the new calendar view, click the Settings icon on the main calendar window, choose Settings and select Import &amp; Export on the next page. In the Import area, click the “Select file from your computer” option, find the .ics file and click Import. Exporting events grabs all the calendar entries in place at the time, but does not update with any new entries after you export the file. If you want to keep updated, ask the school calendar administrator if there is a public version of the calendar that you can subscribe to or share.