 Good Wednesday. Here’s what we’re watching: • Tesla’s plan to cut back on capital expenditures. • Why Apple’s share repurchases have been good for investors. • Will the Fed offer clues about future rate increases? • How activist investors shook Xerox. • On the earnings calendar: Tesla, where Elon Musk will face plenty of questions.  Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here. Tesla in recent weeks has faced concerns that it is consuming too much cash as it tries to produce a new model of electric car. Now, Tesla itself seems to share those worries. While reporting its first-quarter earnings on Wednesday, the company made the surprising announcement that it was going to “significantly cut back” the amount of money it spends on its facilities and equipment.. Such capital expenditures will most likely total slightly less than $3 billion this year, Tesla said, down from its earlier forecast of more than $3.4 billion. The announcement came as the company said it spent $656 million on capital expenditures in the first quarter, and its negative cash flows from its operations reached nearly $400 million during the period, causing Tesla to burn through over $1 billion of cash. Cash generation should, in theory, pick up as it sells more of its newest car, the Model 3. But it’s not clear when Model 3 sales will reach targeted levels, because Tesla has had problems producing the car in large numbers. In its earnings report, Tesla suggested that its spending on capital expenditures would rely on how much cash its operations bring in. But the company is running out of room for maneuver. Cash on Tesla’s balance sheet at the end of the first quarter fell to $2.7 billion from $3.4 billion in the previous quarter. And the company’s chief executive, Elon Musk, on a conference call on Wednesday said the company did not want to raise fresh capital. Analysts on the conference call asked what capital expenditures Tesla may reduce in order to meet its lower target. Deepak Ahuja, Tesla’s chief financial officer, said the company might be able to spend less as it attempts to rationalize its production. But when an analyst then asked Mr. Musk about Tesla’s capital requirements, the chief executive did not answer the question and told the operator to move to another questioner. Around this time, Tesla’s stock slid sharply in the after-market trading. -- Peter Eavis Tesla lost nearly $800 million in the first three months of the year, the sixth quarter in a row it has lost money. But Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, said the company was on the verge of a decisive upturn and could make money in the second half of the year. That, of course, came with a major caveat: Tesla achieving its latest goals for Model 3 production, which is well behind schedule. Here’s a look at the numbers: • Tesla’s net loss increased to $784.6 million from a loss of $397.2 million a year ago. • Tesla’s adjusted loss per share came in at $3.35. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected a loss per share of $3.58. • Revenue climbed to $3.41 billion, topping analyst expectations of $3.28 billion. • Tesla’s negative free cash flow increased to about $1 billion in the first quarter, up from $277 million during the fourth quarter of last year. • The company had $2.67 billion in cash at the end of the first quarter, compared with $3.37 billion at the end of December.  The music streaming firm’s first results as a public company disappointed investors. Reuters reports: Here’s a look at the numbers: • Spotify reported a first-quarter loss of €169 million ($202 million), or €1.01 a share, from €173 million, or €1.15, in the same period a year earlier. • Spotify posted a first-quarter operating loss of 41 million euros, a sharp improvement from a loss of 139 million euros a year ago • Revenue rose 26 percent to 1.139 billion euros. Analysts had expected 1.143 billion euros. • Monthly active users increased 30 percent from a year ago to 170 million. • Paid subscribers rose 45 percent from a year ago to 75 million. • Average revenue per user fell to 4.72 euros from 5.32 euros in 2017. • Gross margins were 24.9 percent. The Trump administration is considering executive action to further restrict the sale of Chinese telecommunications equipment in the United States, What is in the executive order, which could be released within days: • It is expected to raise the barrier for government agencies to buy products from foreign telecom equipment providers like Huawei and ZTE, two of China’s most prominent technology firms. • Private government contractors may also be restricted from buying foreign telecom products, which the United States believes may be vulnerable to Chinese espionage or disruption. The order would follow a series of intensifying actions by the Trump administration to block Chinese technology. • In March, the Federal Communications Commission took action to block broadband companies that receive federal subsidies from buying equipment from suppliers that are deemed a risk to national security. • In April, the Commerce Department barred ZTE from purchases of American technology for seven years, saying that the company failed to punish employees who violated sanctions. • On Wednesday, a spokesman for the Department of Defense said it was stopping the sale of phones made by Huawei and ZTE in stores on American military bases around the world because of security concerns. As expected, the Federal Reserve held interest rates steady at the conclusion of its two-day policy meeting on Wednesday. The central bank acknowledged rising inflation but provided little indication that officials are worried about a sudden, rapid escalation in prices or an abrupt slowdown in economic growth that could alter its gradual pace of rate increases. Perhaps the biggest change to the Fed policy statement was the use of the word “symmetric” to describe its inflation target. The Fed uses the word “symmetric” to emphasize that its goal is to prevent inflation running persistently above or below 2 percent. Put another way, investors should not see a 2 percent inflation rate as a level never to be breached. Indeed, on Wednesday, investors appeared to view the Fed’s use of “symmetric” as a signal that the Fed was willing to allow inflation run above the 2 percent level for a period. Ward McCarthy, the chief financial economist at Jeffries, wrote: Apple’s stock buyback program isn’t just bigger than those of other companies, it’s also better at doing what investors want share repurchases to do. Apple on Tuesday said it was going to buy back another $100 billion of its own stock. The company announced the plan as it is about to complete a $210 billion stock repurchase program. As large as those numbers seem, they don’t reveal the degree to which the repurchases have benefited shareholders. What matters to them is whether Apple has significantly fewer shares outstanding at the end of the program. If that is achieved, Apple’s earnings per share will be higher, which could lead investors to view the stock more positively. Apple’s diluted shares outstanding have fallen nearly 24 percent over the past five years. Here’s how that compares with some companies that are known for their large stock buybacks. Over the past five years, IBM’s shares outstanding have declined by some 18 percent, Cisco’s have decreased just over 8 percent, and Microsoft’s have fallen by 7.5 percent. Apple’s cash flow statements show it has spent nearly $200 billion on stock repurchases over the past five years, which works out at 57 percent of its cash flow from operations for the period. That percentage is also above that of other companies. The cash Cisco spent on stock repurchases over the past five years amounted to 46 percent of its cash flow from operations. At IBM, that number was 44 percent. — Peter Eavis Repurchasing $100 billion worth of shares should use a lot of Apple’s famous $252 billion cash hoard. But it isn’t an investment in R.&amp;D. or hiring, and it disproportionately affects wealthier stockholders rather than most people. The buybacks aren’t coming at the expense of U.S. investment or job-creation, Apple says. (Its C.F.O., Luca Maestri, said Apple was indeed investing, but that didn’t mean it should keep extra cash on its balance sheet.) But there’s a pattern of American companies using their tax windfalls to reward investors rather than to expand. Peter Eavis’s take: The amount sounds like a lot, but Apple has a huge stock market value, and investors are now used to buybacks. How Apple’s business looks: Pretty good. Higher iPhone prices helped. And services revenue is growing strongly. Most everyone expects the Federal Reserve to hold interest rates steady at the conclusion of its two-day policy meeting on Wednesday. But investors and policymakers will comb over the Fed’s policy statement for clues about whether the central bank plans to raise rates more quickly than previously telegraphed. Here’s what to watch: • Any new signs of officials expressing concern about an acceleration in prices. Investors would likely interpret any new worries about inflation to mean the pace of rate hikes could quicken. • Are risks to the economy increasing? Fed officials are broadly optimistic about the strength of the economy, but a few have noted that there are some risks on the horizon for growth — most notably a potential drag from a trade dispute with other nations. Growing concerns about these risks would likely to be taken by the markets as evidence that the Fed will not deviate from its plan to raise rates gradually. Amazon has reportedly made an offer to buy a 60 percent stake in India’s leading online retailer Flipkart, according to CNBC affiliate CNBC TV-18. Amazon’s offer would set up a potential bidding war with Walmart, which the NYT reported late last month was nearing a deal to acquire a 60 percent stake in Flipkart. The deal would value Flipkart at about $20 billion, the NYT reported. The stock is down more than 18 percent after Snap’s revenue, profit and daily average users all fell short of analysts’ estimates. Snap said its recent redesign of its Snapchat app was dragging down the company’s performance. “A change this big to existing behavior comes with some disruption,” said Evan Spiegel, Snap’s chief executive. Critics’ corner Ross Sandler, an analyst at Barclays, writes that there was little positive to point to in Snap’s first-quarter results.  Brian Nowak, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said: Sam Kemp, an analyst at Piper Jaffray, said: Carl Icahn and Darwin Deason can celebrate a major achievement: getting the onetime American icon to replace its C.E.O., Jeff Jacobson, and chairman, Robert Keegan, and to rethink its planned merger with Fujifilm. (They own 15 percent of the company between them.) More from David Benoit of the WSJ: The fight may not be over: Fujifilm said today that it’s appealing the injunction. A must-read: What C.E.O.s get wrong about activists, by Frank Partnoy and DealBook friend Steven Davidoff Solomon. And unrelatedly, are they oversharing? As the T-Mobile and Sprint C.E.O.s make the rounds in Washington this week to pitch their $26.5 billion deal, three regulators have a role: • The Justice Department, which has been harder than expected on M.&amp;A., will assess whether consumers face higher prices. • The F.C.C. will consider whether it’s in the national interest to let the national wireless market shrink from four providers to three. • Cfius will rule on how the deal might affect national security. The F.C.C. chairman has sounded warm about consolidation, and controlling shareholders of both companies have passed Cfius reviews before. But regulatory approval is still an open question, and Sprint and T-Mobile’s share prices reflect that. • California sued the Trump administration over the E.P.A.’s efforts to weaken car emissions standards. (NYT) • Robert Mueller reportedly warned President Trump’s legal team that he may seek a subpoena. James Comey thinks the president should submit to an interview. But there are reasons it could prove tricky. Rod Rosenstein described receiving threats, and said that the Justice Department “is not going to be extorted.” • Scott Pruitt’s trip to Morocco in December was partly planned by a lobbyist who then landed work from the Moroccan government. (NYT) • Mr. Trump’s former doctor, Harold Bornstein, said that said two Trump Organization executives had “raided” his office last February to seize the president’s medical records. (NBC News) As President Trump continues to negotiate with the E.U., Canada and Mexico after extending tariff exemptions by 30 days, his administration is finding that fighting a trade battle on multiple fronts is tough, Peter Eavis writes. Canada and Mexico’s reprieve from aluminum and steel tariffs may advance Nafta negotiations, but the E.U. got its concession without apparently giving anything up, probably putting it in a stronger position. And the longer the U.S. and the E.U. are at an impasse, the less likely it is that they can push back against China together. He said it: “There will be pain, but the idea there will be Armageddon and everything will be horrible simply is not true,” Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said at the Milken Institute Global Conference yesterday. Elsewhere in trade: The Treasury Department has given Rusal a potential way off a sanctions blacklist. T hat could prevent its delisting from the London Stock Exchange — and ease panic in the global aluminum markets. Yes, the social giant introduced a tool at its F8 developer conference to let people wipe their browsing history on the site. And Mr. Zuckerberg acknowledged the rough times he and the company have endured this year, wincingly joking about his congressional testimony. But the company’s attitude toward growth hasn’t changed. “The world would lose if Facebook went away,” he told developers. Facebook said it was working on a portable Oculus virtual reality device and — what got everyone’s attention — a dating app that sent shares in the Match Group plunging. (The C.E.O. of IAC, which owns Match Group, responded: “Their product could be great for U.S./Russia relationships.”) Elsewhere in social media: Snapchat’s users didn’t like its redesign, and investors didn’t like its parent company’s results. The creators of Signal say Amazon has threatened to remove their messaging app from its CloudFront service unless they stop disguising web traffic’s origins. Iran blocked Telegram. Elsewhere in tech: Netflix wasn’t at the Milken Institute Global Conference, but everyone was talking about it. Amazon is still choosing a second home city, but it’s building in Boston and Vancouver. Can Google’s collegelike culture survive? U.S. regulators are examining whether Ether’s creation broke securities laws. That’s despite an 11th-hour bid from Inclusion Media, whose $315 million offer — Lantern’s was $310 million — included a settlement fund for Harvey Weinstein’s victims and was backed by several of them. The board of the bankrupt movie studio said it didn’t consider Inclusion’s bid credible. Next stop: The judge in The Weinstein Company’s will decide whether to approve Lantern’s deal. Elwhere in misconduct news: Wendell Jamieson, who resigned as the NYT’s metro editor, had been accused of inappropriate behavior by at least three female employees. Time’s Up has backed #MuteRKelly. • J Sainsbury’s C.E.O. probably shouldn’t have sung “We’re in the money” as he waited for a television interview about his bid for the Asda supermarket chain — at least, not with the camera rolling. (NYT) • Vista Outdoor is selling its gun-making business. (NYT) • Birchbox reportedly sold a majority stake to an existing investor, Viking Global, leaving other shareholders with nothing. (Recode) • Cisco sold its video business back to Permira for $1 billion, a fifth of what it paid in 2012. Cisco also bought Accompany, an A.I.-based relationship analysis start-up, for $270 million. • Dan Loeb is stepping down as chairman of Success Academy Charter Schools after five years. (NYT) • The medical advice start-up HealthTap fired its C.E.O., Ron Gutman, over accusations he intimidated employees. (Recode) • MetLife’s C.F.O., John Hele, will leave after the company reported “material weakness” in its financial statements. (FT) • Jess Verrilli, who went from Twitter to GV to Twitter, is back at GV. (Recode) • Morgan Stanley named Clare Woodman as its first female head of Europe, the Middle East and Africa. (FT) • Goldman Sachs has just two women on its 11-member board, lagging other banks. (The Street) • A common job-interview question helps maintain the gender pay gap. (NYT) • Some rust belt cities have kept their sheen, but it may just be good luck. (NYT) • AllianceBernstein is reportedly moving to Nashville to cut costs. (WSJ) • How a crackdown on aggressive borrowing in China is hurting Hollywood. (The Information) • BP’s C.F.O., Brian Gilvary, dismissed a claim that its C.E.O., Bob Dudley, had been poisoned in Moscow as “a complete urban myth.” (CNBC) • Britain is to order its overseas territories, including the Cayman Islands and Bermuda, to publicly identify company owners. (FT) • Switzerland is prosecuting two PetroSaudi International officials over alleged dealings with the Malaysian state investment fund. (WSJ) Know someone who would enjoy this newsletter? Tell them to sign up here. You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook. We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.