 As soon as Dick’s Sporting Goods, one of the country’s largest sports retailers, announced on Wednesday that it would no longer sell assault-style rifles, a flood of readers reacted. Most applauded, including some gun owners. But others saw a public relations stunt on the day that school resumed at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., where 17 people were killed two weeks ago. And some objected that their right to buy firearms was being attacked. The company also said it would no longer sell high-capacity magazines and would not sell any gun to anyone younger than 21, regardless of local laws. “I’m a gun owner and I commend Dick’s for doing this. I would gladly give up my right to own an assault style weapon if I thought it could save even one child. It really isn’t a hard decision to make.” — Larry Carino “I have been with this company 19 years, and work in one of the original stores where the company was founded. I have tears in my eyes. I am smiling from ear to ear.” —  Cynthia Began  “For those who say they will no longer shop at Dicks … go ahead and shop elsewhere. Dicks will now make up those lost sales and more through their NEW customers!” — Becky Miller Price  “Apparently the young people of Parkland have made an impact, YES! Dicks has developed a social conscience, when will the politicians follow suit?” — Kathy Larit “As a gun owner and a concealed carry permit holder, I applaud you. No one needs this type of weapon other than an active military member!” — Catherine Stevens “A step in the right direction … I will order something from Dick’s online today.” — Ellen, California “The good news here is that even if Americans don’t vote, they sure do shop.” — Gloria, Massachusetts ”It’s private sales and Gun Shows that need to be better regulated, because anything goes there.” — USMC1954, St. Louis “This is one way to help people avoid a background investigation — by forcing them to go to a shady dealer.” — Mark-Ginger Schreiber  “Corporations are doing this now as a way to make themselves look good and draw people to them, it’s not because it’s the right thing to do.” — Susan Strauss  “As long as they sell weapons they don’t get my money” — Mare Jeffries “A committed would-be criminal will just go to a dedicated gun store, and find a relative or friend to act as a straw buyer if he is under 21. This is a feel-good gesture and nothing more.” — Mark Lebow, Milwaukee “Won’t shop at Dicks anymore. Too bad people don’t realize what the second amendment is about. Cabelas will get all my business from now on which is significant.” — Robert Matthews, Buffalo  “Dicks is extremely overpriced anyway.” — Jim Gillies  “Another store no one shops in trying to be relevant.” — Aleks Black   “So they’re refusing to sell a certain type of gun AND denying service to a specific age group? Does that mean we get to call them bigoted just like those Christian bakers?” — Jordan Crump  “They’ve basically severed a part of their business to make a PR statement. Companies need to get out of politics all around.” — Scott, Paradise Valley, Ariz. 