 This weekend, 25 vertical racing lanes will hang along a sun-drenched stage in Banner Elk, N.C., awaiting their athletes — thousands of fuzzy, brown and black banded caterpillars. Throughout the day, people will sign up their worms for the big race. An M.C. known as Mr. Woolly Worm will kick off the race wearing a pink and yellow suit infested with fake caterpillars. The first to reach the top takes home the grand prize: $1,000 and the honor of forecasting this year’s winter weather. “Last year Twinkletoes was our worm that won,” said Melynda Pepple, the executive director of the Avery County chamber of commerce, which co-hosts the annual Woolly Worm Festival. “It was quite phenomenal about how exact it was.” Just as many Americans wait to see whether Punxsutawney Phil or Staten Island Chuck will see their shadows as a harbinger of spring, people in the mountains of North Carolina have their own folky way to predict the weather: by reading the stripes on fuzzy bodies of Tiger Moth larvae, a caterpillar known as the woolly bear or woolly worm. Just about every year as a kid, I’d anticipate the reading of the thirteen stripes of black, brown and auburn that correspond with the 13 weeks of winter. Folklore has it that the width and color of the bands can predict upcoming climate conditions. Generally, a narrow, blacker band indicates a stormy, icy and colder than average winter, and a wide brown band indicates a mild one. It’s not a science, but there is some science to it. Thousands of proverbs exist that suggest animals can predict weather. “Whether it’s the woolly bear caterpillar, the skin on the belly of a catfish, or a mole in the depths of its hole, all of these are observations made decades ago when the only thing people could assess the weather on was the environment around them,” said Janice Stillman, an editor at The Old Farmer’s Almanac. Gus Wickstrom, in Canada, still uses a pig’s spleen. The founder of the festival, Jim Morton, heard about the woolly worm and thought, why not give it a shot? But there isn’t much science backing up the use of the woolly worms as creepy crawly weather vanes. There are two kinds of forecasting when it comes to weather — short-term weather prediction, like how much it will rain over Banner Elk on Tuesday, and long-term climatology, like what each week will look like over winter in The High Country, said Gary Lackmann, an atmospheric scientist at North Carolina State University. Meteorologists can make fairly accurate weather predictions using computer models, satellites and radar observations for most weather events. But seasonal forecasts rely on strong climate signals, like El Niño or La Niña, to give hints about what’s to come. Dr. Lackmann doesn’t deny animals can probably sense oncoming extreme weather, but can a woolly worm forecast far into the future? “I would wager that if you kept score,” he said, “and compared that to what actually happened, I’d imagine there’d be nothing there.” Starting in 1948, C. H. Curran, an insect curator at the American Museum of Natural History, spent eight years trying to test that. He correlated the woolly bear bands with weather reports in New York. Dr. Curran found that the caterpillar had about a 50/50 shot at getting it right and concluded that the folklore had some merit. But Dr. Lackmann said that “it’s pretty easy to cook the books” by making ambiguous forecasts and cherry picking data. There’s also no particular reason the fastest woolly worm is best at predicting the weather. Perhaps it doesn’t matter. Maybe you just want to win a race. I asked these scientists what makes a fast woolly worm. If you see one hanging out in the sun or eating poison hemlock or Joe Pye weed, it could have been parasitized by a Tachinid fly, which can make them lethargic. And you should pick the right time to run your caterpillar. They move faster in the heat, and when they’re hungry, said Michael Singer, an entomologist who studies the woolly bear caterpillar at Wesleyan University. “Pretty much when they’re uncomfortable, is when they really motor,” he added. If you can’t make it to North Carolina’s High Country, there are other woolly worm festivals around the country. One in Beattyville, Ky, is planned for the last full weekend of October, and another in Lewisburg, Pa., on Oct. 15. A festival in Vermilion, Ohio, on Oct. 2 attracted some 100,000 visitors.