 Most of the scientific investigations of Pluto by NASA’s New Horizons spacecraft took place over the course of a single day, when it zipped within 8,000 miles of the dwarf planet in July of last year. Getting all that information back to Earth where scientists could study it took 15 months. The last bits of data — an infrared scan of Pluto and its largest moon, Charon, that tells something about the composition of the two — arrived on Earth on Tuesday at 5:48 a.m. Eastern. “Well, you know, in our hearts, it’s still there,” Alice Bowman, the missions operations manager, said of Pluto, “but our data is on the ground.” In all, New Horizons made more than 400 scientific observations, most of them on July 14, 2015, when the spacecraft made its closest approach to Pluto, passing within 8,000 miles of the surface. The spacecraft beamed back the highlights the next day, July 15 — what the mission team cheekily called “The New York Times data set,” because they expected breathtaking images that would be splashed across the front page of The New York Times. (They were right.) But scientists had to wait for the bulk of the data — more than 50 billion bits — because the radio signal from two 12-watt transmitters on a spacecraft more than three billion miles away is tenuously faint. In modern-day computing terms, 50 billion bits is not much — 6.25 gigabytes, or what easily fits on a cheap USB flash drive. Spread over 469 days, the effective data rate was about 1,200 bits per second, on par with computer modems of the early 1980s. New Horizons was actually pushing the data at a somewhat faster pace, but it could not do so continuously, because it had to share NASA’s large radio dishes with other missions. Ms. Bowman said the scientists were checking one more time to make sure that they had everything, and then in a few weeks, a command would be sent to wipe the data memory banks clean. The New Horizons team is already planning for its next encounter on New Year’s Day in 2019, passing within 2,000 miles of a distant clump of rock and ice known as 2014 MU69. So far, astronomers do not know much about 2014 MU69 beyond that it is tiny and red — redder than Pluto though not quite as red as Mars — and that it is part of what is known as the classical Kuiper belt, a disk of icy bodies beyond Neptune whose circular orbits appear undisturbed since the beginning of the solar system 4.5 billion years ago. (Pluto by contrast, has been bullied by Neptune’s gravity into an elliptical, tilted orbit with a travel time around the sun 1.5 times that of Neptune.) “We believe that they are the primordial remnants of the disk that formed the planets,” Amanda M. Zangari, a researcher at the Southwest Research Institute in Boulder, Colo. working on the New Horizons mission, said during a news conference last week. S. Alan Stern, the principal investigator of New Horizons, declined to make predictions of what will be discovered. Based on Hubble Space Telescope observations, astronomers guess its diameter to be 20 to 30 miles. That would make its mass about a thousandth of Pluto’s, Dr. Stern said, yet 10,000 times the mass of Comet 67P/Churyumov–Gerasimenko, which was studied by the European Space Agency’s Rosetta mission. “We’ve never been to anything like MU69,” Dr. Stern said. Scientists will have to wait awhile. With the greater distance from Earth and slower transmission rates, it will take 21 months, until September 2020, for New Horizons to get the data from that encounter back to Earth.