 The data in a new report on thyroid cancer was stunning. From 2003 to 2007, as many as 70 percent to 80 percent of women in the United States, France, Italy and Australia who were told they had thyroid cancer and who often had their thyroids removed actually had tumors that should have been left alone. In South Korea, the trend is more pronounced — 90 percent of women with thyroid cancer probably did not require surgery. The same trend applied to men, but to a lesser degree. In the United States and Australia, overdiagnosis accounted for about 45 percent of thyroid cancer in men over that four-year period. The rate in France, Italy and South Korea was about 70 percent, the report concluded. The report in The New England Journal of Medicine by the International Agency for Research on Cancer in Lyon, France, and the Aviano National Cancer Institute in Aviano, Italy, though, was not a complete surprise to cancer researchers. Call it the downside of screening, or the law of unintended consequences. Or, as a reader suggested by email, “vomit,” for victim of modern imaging technology. The increased use of scanning — ultrasound, CT, magnetic resonance imaging — is finding lumps in the neck that are too small to feel by hand. In South Korea, a national cancer screening program led doctors to actively look for such minuscule lumps by screening healthy people with ultrasound. The result has been overdiagnosis. It happens with all cancer screening, but has been most apparent with thyroid cancer. And treatment is not benign. Once doctors find a tiny nodule, removing the thyroid is often the remedy. But the procedure carries lifelong consequences: Patients must take thyroid hormones for the rest of their lives, and for some, those hormones are not completely effective. Patients can feel depressed and sluggish because their levels are too low. Yet pathologists have long known that thyroid cancers, especially tiny ones, may never progress. Autopsies have shown that a third of people had them but never noticed them. The American Thyroid Association recently advised that when tiny tumors are discovered, the best course is watchful waiting — to leave the thyroid alone. Some thyroid cancers, of course, really are dangerous, but they tend to be larger than the tiny ones found with scans. And symptoms like a lump in the neck or hoarseness should not be ignored. The trend that has cancer experts wringing their hands began with ultrasound screens. They started coming into widespread use in the late 1980s. Gynecology and obstetrics clinics started screening healthy young women as part of routine examinations and finding little lumps. In addition, thyroid lumps were found accidentally when people had scans for other reasons. As ultrasound, M.R.I. and CT scans were used more and more, the thyroid cancer rate soared. In the United States, it has more than doubled since 1994. As many as 228,000 American women received thyroid cancer diagnoses from 1988 to 2007 as a result of overdiagnosis, according to the new report. How would we know if there’s an overdiagnosis problem? Simple, medical experts say. In a real cancer epidemic, deaths would increase in lock step with increasing incidence. But a rise in cancer cases while the death rate does not budge points to overdiagnosis. And that, sadly enough, is what has happened.