 Senator John McCain’s staff announced on Wednesday that he has a brain tumor called a glioblastoma. The diagnosis was based on a biopsy of the tissue removed from his brain on Friday during surgery at the Mayo Clinic Hospital in Phoenix. What sort of brain cancer is this? Glioblastoma is the most aggressive type of brain tumor. It originates in the brain; it does not spread there from another part of the body. The cause is not known. This tumor has no relation to melanoma, the skin cancer for which Mr. McCain was treated in the past. How common is glioblastoma? An estimated 12,390 new cases were expected in 2017, according to the American Brain Tumor Association. The risk that it will develop increases with age. How is glioblastoma treated? Like most cancers, glioblastoma is treated with surgery to remove as much of the tumor as possible, then radiation and chemotherapy. The tumor almost always grows back in less than a year. When it recurs, surgeons usually operate again. Dr. Mitchel S. Berger, a neurosurgeon and glioblastoma expert at the University of California, San Francisco, said the tumor should be genetically sequenced to look for mutations indicating that the cancer might be especially sensitive to a certain drug, possibly an experimental one. What is the outlook? Because they keep returning, glioblastomas are almost never cured, and the prognosis is poor. With treatment, the median survival — which means half of patients live longer than this, and half die sooner — is 12 to 18 months. Senator Edward M. Kennedy died of glioblastoma in 2009, 15 months after it was diagnosed. Beau Biden, son of former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., died of the same cancer in 2015, nearly two years after diagnosis. “We’ve made a fair amount of progress, but it’s been very slow,” Dr. Berger said. “Thirty years ago, no more than 1 or 2 percent of patients survived more than two or three years. Now, at least 25 percent survive three to five years and beyond.” Do glioblastomas cause symptoms? Possible symptoms include headaches, seizures, blurred vision and sometimes difficulty with thinking or speaking. What led to Mr. McCain’s diagnosis has not been disclosed. It is not possible to determine whether the tumor had anything to do with his somewhat confused questioning of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, in June. Could Mr. McCain enter a clinical trial of an experimental treatment? Clinical trials have specific entry criteria for scientific reasons, involving factors like the exact type of the tumor and what kind of treatment a patient has already had. If the senator matches the criteria for a particular study, he could enroll in a clinical trial.