 The common swift is a bird shaped by and for the air. In flight it looks like a crescent moon, with just a hint of head and a tail that, when spread, echoes the curve of its wings. Scientists have now confirmed that it can spend up to 10 months in the air without landing. Only when it makes a nest does it need to come to Earth. It can even mate during flight. Anders Hedenström, a biologist at the University of Lund, and his colleagues determined how much time swifts spend in the air by capturing them in southern Sweden, where they summer and nest, and attaching micro data loggers. They reported their findings in Current Biology. The tiny logging devices, part of the revolution in miniature electronics that enable the tracking of smaller and smaller creatures, weigh less than four hundredths of an ounce. So the swifts, weighing about one and a half ounces, can carry them without problem. The loggers include an accelerometer, to record movement, and a light sensor. Given the duration of the day and night and the time of year, scientists can determine the north/south position. Noting when the sun is at the midday position gives an east/west location. In 2014 and 2015, they recaptured 19 swifts carrying these data loggers and found that, as expected, the swifts were spending their winters in West Africa. Three birds never rested, Dr. Hedenström said. Some did rest occasionally at night for brief periods, but the data loggers showed that all the birds stayed in the air more than 99 percent of the time when they weren’t nesting. The data confirmed what had long been predicted, that the birds stayed aloft when they weren’t nesting. Roosts had never been found in Africa. And Dr. Hedenström said that over the course of the past 100 years, about 50,000 swifts were banded in Sweden. Only one banded bird was ever recovered south of the Sahara. The recordings also showed that long ascents, observed during the summer, happen throughout the year. During these ascents, often at twilight, the birds climb up to one and a half miles. Dr. Hedenström thinks the birds may ascend to catch a bit of sleep while safely gliding. How birds that spend extreme amounts of time in the air cope with the need to sleep is an old puzzle. A recent study of frigate birds showed that they can sleep on the wing, although they sleep much less in flight than they do on land. Dr. Hedenström and his colleagues are hoping to someday be able to study how swifts sleep on the wing, but the recording devices that observe telltale brain activity weigh too much. All electronic devices get smaller and smaller, however. The data loggers he used are recent developments. “We couldn’t have dreamed of this 10 years ago,” he said.