 Re “Power in a Sea Breeze” (Aug. 23): Great to see the plentiful wind resources finally being developed in the Northeast. The ability to produce carbon-free power so close to the big cities of the East Coast is a total no-brainer. As the offshore wind industry scales up, millions of construction and maintenance jobs will be created. Imagine no oil spills, gas explosions or air pollution as we switch to a world powered by renewable technologies. The more solar and wind is installed, the more the costs come down due to incredible learning curves that these technologies benefit from. Blusyohsmoosyoh, Boston, Posted to nytimes.com I see nowhere in the article any safeguards or using new equipment to keep from killing the millions of birds now being killed by normal wind turbines. Starr3214, Golden, Colo., Posted to nytimes.com The wind turbines are a blot on the landscape, hideous and loud and bound to disturb the ocean creatures as much as they disturb land creatures. They show no respect for the beauty and power of the ocean and its inhabitants. margaret, Atlanta, Posted to nytimes.com To the Editor: Re “Underused Cancer Prevention” (Personal Health, Aug. 23): One in four women will have an abnormal Pap test in her life. As a gynecologist who cares for women with cervical precancers and cancers, I communicate the importance of the HPV vaccine. HPV vaccination has been shown in trials and effectiveness studies to be nearly 100 percent protective against the most carcinogenic strains of the virus, and has been proved to reduce the risk of precancers of the cervix, vagina, vulva, and anus. Rebecca Perkins, M.D., Boston As a woman who got cervical cancer at an early age and had to have a complete hysterectomy because of the type of cancer involved, I cannot stress enough the importance of giving this vaccine to children and young women. My cancer, luckily, was discovered at a very early stage during my annual visit to the gynecologist, but led to my inability to have children. Carol C., Denver, Posted to nytimes.com The son of a longtime family friend got oral cancer (and was a nontobacco user) likely caused by HPV. The treatment was awful. When my son was born, I never forgot that. I got my son vaccinated with all three shots to protect him and his future partners. That’s what proper parents do. Jeff Nichols Posted to nytimes.com