 Darwin’s finches, those little birds in the Galápagos with beaks of different sizes and shapes, were instrumental in the development of the theory of evolution. Similar birds had large and small beaks and beaks in between, all related to what kinds of insects and seeds they ate. From one ancestor, it seemed, different adaptations to the environment had evolved, giving the birds that adapted a survival edge in a particular ecological niche — evolution by natural selection. Biologists who came later went on to identify the genetic changes that had produced different beak shapes. Now another group of finch-like birds has provided a similar example, but of a different kind of evolution, one driven not by the demands of the environment, but by the demands of female birds. Their preferences in color and pattern caused the evolution of different species of seedeater, all with the same behavior and diet, but with males that look different. That’s a process called sexual selection, which Darwin also wrote about. Leonardo Campagna, a researcher at Cornell University and the Cornell Lab of Ornithology, and a group of scientists from the United States and South America investigated nine species of southern capuchino seedeaters, doing full genomes for each one and reported their findings in Science Advances. They found that the DNA of all the species is remarkably similar, as are the birds. All the females look alike and all of the species feed on grass seeds plucked from grass stalks of living plants. Only the males are different. They have a wide variety of colorations and their courting songs are also distinct. Dr. Campagna and the other researchers found that differences between species DNA were all minimal, ranging from as little as 0.03 percent to as great as 0.3 percent. All the species showed variation in the same area, DNA that appeared to have a role in regulating genes for the pigment melanin. The study, Dr. Campagna said, is a reminder that one species can split into multiple species with very little underlying genetic change. It’s also interesting because the color patterns of the male do not seem to give one species any survival advantage over another. They do identify different species, but the patterns themselves seem to be dictated by female mating choices. Much about sexual selection remains unknown. For instance, what combination of brain and sensory function leads to a liking for one color over another, and what genes are responsible? The researchers did not investigate the name of the capuchino seedeaters, but Dr. Campagna said it did not derive from the popular Italian drink of coffee and foamed milk. He said the name came from the Spanish word for hood, “capucha.” The birds have what looks like a cap. Of course the word cappuccino, in Italian, has a similar provenance. It comes from the color of the hood of a monk’s robe — the Capuchin friars — so named because of the Italian word for hood. More research may be necessary.