 Lucy was a small one. She weighed about as much as the average 2nd grader and stood about three-and-a-half feet tall. But that lady (or pre-lady, because Australopithecus afarensis like her weren’t quite human) was strong. Her famous skeleton, a 3.18 million-year-old fossil also known as AL 288-1, tells us so. But to build arm bones as strong as hers, she, and possibly other members of her species, probably spent a lot of time in trees, suggests a study published Wednesday in the journal PLOS One. Lucy, discovered almost half a century ago, was the most complete skeleton of the earliest hominid ever found at the time. She changed our understanding of human evolution. There’s little doubt Lucy walked on two feet like a modern human, or that she climbed trees to sleep, avoid predators or gather food. Some scientists — including some involved in this study — even think she died after a fall from one. But just how much time she spent in trees has been a subject of contention because interpretations of her ancient skeletal clues are hard to prove. For the latest study, researchers looked at the ways bones can grow stronger or weaker with everyday use. And by examining the internal structure of Lucy’s upper right arm and leg bones and comparing them with the bones of around 100 chimpanzees and 1,000 modern humans, they concluded that climbing trees wasn’t just some trivial task. Lucy did it enough that the ratio of strength between her arms and legs is slightly more chimpish than human. “That doesn’t mean she was acting like a chimp, just that she was stressing her limbs more like a chimpanzee than a modern human,” said Christopher Ruff, a paleoanthropologist at Johns Hopkins University who led the study. To make inferences about how Lucy’s bones were used in day to day life, the researchers analyzed 3-D digital models of bones built from scans of the fossil. Bones, like drinking straws, are hollow, and if you were to slice them horizontally you’d have a set of bone bangles. The width of each one of those bangles at particular parts of the bone indicate its strength. This width is called cortical thickness. For example, a professional tennis player’s racket arm bone has a larger cortical thickness than that of the other arm. Lucy’s bones were pretty thick. “She’s tiny, but for her size, she’s coming in very strong,” said John Kappelman, a paleoanthropologist at the University of Texas at Austin who conceived of the study. Because there isn’t much evidence for tool use, which could have made her bones stronger, the researchers concluded she must have been climbing. Other researchers, like Donald Johanson, the paleoanthropologist at Arizona State University who discovered Lucy, still thinks Lucy and other A. afarensis were primarily walkers. “They would have had to spend a considerable amount of time in the trees for this to happen, and I think the overwhelming anatomical evidence is that they were terrestrial in their preferred locomotion,” he said, suggesting that activities like food gathering and digging up roots could have contributed to the thickness of their bones. The study brings new evidence to a long debate about whether Lucy’s skeleton reflects life in trees as well on the ground, or just unused adaptations leftover from ancestors. Long arms, curved fingers and toes and shoulder blades that pointed more toward the head than side of the body are indications she was a climber. But her big toe — which looks more like yours and mine than a chimpanzee’s — is strong evidence, said Dr. Johanson, that she was mainly a walker. Debates aside, one thing is clear about Lucy: “You don’t develop that kind of arm strength unless you exercise your arms a lot,” said Dr. Ruff. “She wasn’t just doing a couple of pull-ups a week.”