 Louise Abate first noticed an itchy tingle near her hairline. The pain started a day or two later as a blistering rash swept down from her scalp onto her forehead. “My eye was so swollen I couldn’t open it,” she said. Shingles. Ms. Abate, 76, a retired casino supervisor in Rio Rancho, N.M., had had the disease twice before, in her 60s, but the episode three years ago hit particularly hard. Long after the rash healed, which took about three weeks, she suffered the complication called postherpetic neuralgia — lingering nerve pain that can last for months or even, as in her case, years. “I get up every day, and it’s there,” she said. “I go to sleep, and it’s there.” She had heard something about a shingles vaccine, but “I really didn’t pay attention,” Ms. Abate confessed. And she is hardly unusual. It’s an ongoing and vexing public health problem: People once vigilant about vaccinating their children aren’t nearly as careful about protecting themselves as they age, even though diseases like influenza, pneumonia and shingles (a.k.a. herpes zoster) are particularly dangerous for older people. “Trying to prevent these common and often debilitating conditions is incredibly important for older adults,” said Dr. Carolyn Bridges, associate director for adult immunization at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Yet in the C.D.C.’s 2014 and 2015 reports on vaccination coverage, she said, “we really didn’t see much change.” Most Americans over 65 get an annual flu shot, but the proportion actually declined a few percentage points last season to about 63 percent. The C.D.C. estimates that of the 226,000 people hospitalized for flu in an average year, 50 percent to 70 percent are over 65; so are the great majority of those who die from it. “Older adults take the brunt,” Dr. Bridges said. Similarly, in 2014, about 61 percent of older adults had received one or both of the two pneumococcal vaccines, which protect against infections that can lead to pneumonia and meningitis. That represented no improvement, leaving millions of older people still vulnerable. About 58 percent of older people had been vaccinated against tetanus during the past 10 years, but only 14 percent had received the recommended dose of the Tdap vaccine against tetanus, diphtheria and whooping cough. It’s especially important for grandparents and others who have contact with infants too young to be vaccinated. And elders have been particularly slow to take advantage of the shingles vaccine. The Food and Drug Administration approved it a decade ago, and the C.D.C. recommends it for those over 60, including those who’ve already had shingles. Coverage has climbed steadily, but in 2014 it had still reached only 31 percent of those over 65. As with nearly all of these vaccines, older whites were more likely to have been vaccinated than blacks, Hispanics or Asians. Why these missed opportunities? “Vaccines are less likely to be routinely incorporated in adult medical practice,” Dr. Bridges said. “Every time a child comes in, a pediatrician makes sure they’re up-to-date.” Older adults often have medical issues that take precedence during brief office visits. They also see specialists who are more focused on cardiology or oncology than on flu and shingles. Seniors and their caregivers should request vaccinations; the C.D.C. publishes guidelines and a quiz that explain which ones are recommended. Zostavax, the current shingles vaccine, reduces the risk of the disease in adults over 60 by half, and the incidence of postherpetic neuralgia by two-thirds. (Quick primer: Shingles results from the same virus that causes chickenpox, which nearly all older Americans have had. The virus typically remains dormant for decades, but the odds of its reactivation rise steeply after 50 as the immune system weakens. The lifetime risk of shingles is one in three, rising to one in two for those over 85.) The vaccine’s underuse can be blamed, in part, on supply shortages in its early years until about 2012. The manufacturer, Merck, and the C.D.C. didn’t increase media campaigns until vaccine supplies were sufficient; such campaigns had just started when Ms. Abate became ill. It’s not surprising that she was only vaguely aware of Zostavax. (She’s starting to feel better, but still needs a sedative to sleep and Zoloft for the depression that chronic pain can produce. “It’s been a long road,” she said. Now vaccinated against a shingles recurrence, she’s urging her children to get the shot.) Cost remains a barrier to getting Zostavax and some other adult vaccines. In a study published this past summer, researchers reported that nearly 40 percent of the time, patients over 50 who requested a prescription for Zostavax at a pharmacy chain chose not to receive the vaccine; out-of-pocket costs were most frequently the reason. The Affordable Care Act requires private insurers to cover Zostavax without co-pays for people older than 60, and many cover it for policyholders over 50. But Medicare beneficiaries find that, unlike the flu and pneumococcal vaccines, which are covered under Part B and often administered in physicians’ offices, Zostavax and Tdap are covered under Part D. Physicians can’t easily bill for Part D reimbursement, so they often send patients to pharmacies, which can. But because Part D involves a welter of different plans and formularies, some requiring patients to pay for the vaccine and then seek reimbursement, the cost and co-pays can discourage use. Zostavax, at about $200 a dose, is the most expensive adult vaccine. This landscape could change drastically in a year or so. In October, the pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline submitted a new shingles vaccine for F.D.A. approval. International studies indicate that the newcomer, Shingrix, is far more effective than the current vaccine, reducing the incidence of shingles by 90 percent. Moreover, the effectiveness doesn’t appear to decrease among older age groups, as Zostavax’s does. Shingrix has its own drawbacks. For one, it requires a second injected dose several months after the first; some people won’t follow up. The manufacturer has yet to set a price, and unless Congress changes the law, any new vaccine will face the same Part D billing complications. But if the F.D.A. approves it, and the C.D.C. recommends its use (which triggers insurance coverage), Shingrix may also prevent a lot of shingles cases — but only if older adults are actually vaccinated. They don’t have a great track record. Public health leaders don’t want older adults waiting to see what the F.D.A. does. One million Americans will get shingles in the coming year; the C.D.C. wants seniors to get vaccinated now. Dr. Bridges endorsed an unfestive but pragmatic holiday gift idea I suggested: a card with a promise to take an older family member to get vaccinated, and to pay any charge or co-pay. Dr. Bridges suggested another gift: that younger family members get flu shots themselves. Since more than a third of older adults don’t, families can at least avoid infecting their senior members at holiday gatherings. “Give them the shingles vaccine as a gift,” Dr. Bridges said. “But don’t give them the flu.”