 We hear it all the time: Americans are more divided than ever, or at least since the Civil War. But the solar eclipse on Aug. 21 brought the United States together in greater numbers than most any national event in recent memory, according to a study released Tuesday by the University of Michigan. It estimated that 88 percent of American adults — about 215 million people — watched the solar eclipse, either in person or electronically. That’s nearly twice the number of people that watched the Super Bowl last year. It’s almost 30 percent more Americans than participated in the presidential election last year. If the eclipse had been a television program, it would have received the most viewers of any in American history; the audience for the cosmic event was almost 18 times as large as that of the “Game of Thrones” finale a week later. “This level of public interest and engagement with a science-oriented event is unparalleled,” said Jon Miller, director of the International Center for the Advancement of Scientific Literacy at the university’s institute for social research, in a statement. The number of viewers represents a greater percentage of Americans than those that brush their teeth daily, and more than double the number that floss daily, according to estimates from a 2014 survey. The study was conducted under a cooperative agreement with NASA. A follow-up survey is planned for October and November to see whether the viewing inspired people to seek out more information about astronomical occurrences. Most adults watched the eclipse, which was the first to be visible in some form coast-to-coast in the United States for nearly a century, with family, friends or co-workers. Though many documented the event using social media, only about 61 million people viewed it electronically, like via live streams, the study found. It suggested that about 70 percent of American adults, 154 million, had actually ventured outside to watch in person as the moon blocked out the sun. The eclipse was viewed by massive crowds in Oregon, Illinois, Kentucky and elsewhere. President Trump, Melania Trump and their son, Barron, watched the scene from the White House balcony in Washington, where President Trump dared to glance at the eclipse without wearing protective glasses. Space has had a uniting effect during turbulent times in America’s past. Even the huge number who witnessed the eclipse paled in comparison with those who tuned in to another lunar event: An estimated 600 million people worldwide watched the first moon landing on July 20, 1969.