 Nearly six centuries ago, Korean astronomers scanning the night sky for omens of the future spotted a new star in the cluster of stars they called Wei, and what today’s star watchers consider the tail of the Scorpius constellation. Fourteen nights later, it vanished. Astronomers have now identified the source of that brief brightening — a binary star system a couple of thousand light-years away. Michael Shara, an astrophysicist at the American Museum of Natural History in New York, has been seeking to understand what happens following explosions in violent star systems known as “cataclysmic variables.” He has searched for the remnants of this particular event for a long time. “Now, about 25 years later, we’ve finally come up with it,” Dr. Shara said. The researchers report their findings Wednesday in the journal Nature. In these systems, one of the stars is a white dwarf, the burned out but still hot remnant of a star. The powerful gravity of the white dwarf pulls hydrogen away from its companion star and onto its surface. “You accumulate about a Pacific Ocean’s worth of hydrogen,” Dr. Shara said. With more and more hydrogen, the pressure builds until it sets off a thermonuclear explosion, a burst of light known as a nova that is up a million times as bright as the sun. “You get a giant fusion bomb, a hydrogen bomb going off on top of this white dwarf star,” Dr. Shara said. That is what the Koreans saw on March 11, 1437. As powerful as nova explosions are, they do not destroy either star (unlike much larger supernovas). The white dwarf fades, and the cycle repeats until the next explosion, which could be up to 100,000 years later. In recent decades, astronomers have observed the fading of novas over decades. They have also spotted similar binary star systems that appear quite stable, calmly orbiting each other, and others that are belching only small eruptions known as dwarf novas. Three decades ago, Dr. Shara proposed that all three types — novas, dwarf novas and the quiescent binaries — were variants of the same type of system but at different stages. The idea was hard to test because astronomers have not been observing them for very long. Thus, historical novas like the one observed in Korea could provide important clues to the life cycle between explosions. For years, he and colleagues looked for the 1437 nova without success. Recently, they expanded the field of search and came across a promising cloud of gas, or nebula, that looked like the carcass of a nova. Other astronomers had noted this previously, but, puzzlingly, the star at the center of the nebula is not a cataclysmic variable. A point of light not far from the center, however, is indeed a cataclysmic variable. (The white dwarf and its companion are so close together that they appear as a single star in photographic plates.) That, the astronomers thought, could have been the source of the nova. They scoured the astronomical archives of Harvard, discovering a picture of the same star in 1923. That allowed them to see how far the off-center point of light had moved across the sky over the past century. Then they traced it back to where it would have been in 1437 — smack at the center of the nebula. (The star that currently appears to be at the center just happens to be along the line of sight and is unrelated to the explosion.) “The real novelty here is we have a clock,” Dr. Shara said. “We can see how fast it’s moving across the sky.” Additional Harvard images of the same star in the 1940s showed modest changes in brightness — dwarf nova eruptions. That supports Dr. Shara’s hypothesis that these types of star systems go through all three stages. In an accompanying commentary in Nature, Steven N. Shore, a professor at the University of Pisa in Italy who was not involved with the research, described the work as “a lovely piece of historical scholarship.” Dr. Shore said it was too early to tell whether this cataclysmic variable is typical or unusual, but it provides a long series of data for astrophysicists to try to recreate with computer models. He likened it to deciphering an ancient tablet but not yet placing it in the proper historical context. “We can read the cuneiform,” he said, “but we don’t know what it means yet.”