 I was raised by grandparents who spoke only Mandarin, so I did not speak English until I went to preschool in Philadelphia. There, guided by English-speaking teachers and surrounded by toddlers babbling in loose English, I adopted the new language quickly. Young bats may not be so different. Wild fruit bats, living in crowded roosts, are exposed to calls from hundreds of fellow bats from birth. Most often these calls are made in response to unsolicited physical contact, and essentially amount to a crabby “move out of my way.” In a study published Wednesday in PLOS Biology, a team of Israeli researchers found that bat pups match their vocalizations to the group sounds they are immersed in, even if this “dialect” differs from that of their mothers. Human babies and toddlers pick up the utterances around them effortlessly. The ability, called vocal learning, is considered critical for our spoken language. But vocal learning has rarely been proven to exist in animals other than humans or songbirds, said Yossi Yovel, a neuroecologist at Tel Aviv University who led the study with graduate students Yosef Prat and Lindsay Azoulay. In nonhuman mammals, much of the evidence for vocal learning “comes from animals that imitate human speech or other artificial sounds,” such as a zoo elephant emulating the Korean spoken by his keepers, Mr. Prat said. What he and his colleagues wanted to know was how an animal learns the sounds of its own species. To start, the scientists captured 14 wild pregnant Egyptian fruit bats, a highly social and vocal species commonly found in the Middle East. Each mother gave birth in one of three chambers. In these chambers, the researchers played different soundtracks to the pups continuously, starting from birth. The tracks sampled calls from actual bats, each mimicking a cave or tree roost with 300 bats in it, but featured different ranges of pitch. For a few months, the bat mothers were also kept in the chambers and would regularly communicate with their offspring. But at 14 weeks, when a pup would normally become independent in the wild, the mothers were set free. At this point, the researchers started recording the pups’ vocalizations every few months until the bats reached adulthood. Over time, the scientists found, the three pup groups took on distinct dialects. “When we examined the dialects more carefully, we found that they were similar to what the bats were hearing — the high-pitched group shifted toward higher-pitched calls and the low-pitched group shifted toward lower-pitched calls,” Dr. Yovel said. He added that the difference between the calls the bats learned from their mothers and the ones they adopted from the soundtracks could be considered similar to the difference between New England and Texan accents. And while it’s not known whether bat colonies in different locations naturally communicate with varying frequencies, Dr. Yovel said, “our findings suggest they do.” Next, his team wants to see how dialects affect the bats’ social behaviors. “If I teach a few bats a new dialect and then send them into a new colony, how will they be treated?” he said. The research also touches on broader evolutionary questions, like whether human vocal learning emerged independently, or whether it’s a more primitive behavior, spread across the mammalian kingdom, Dr. Yovel said. So far, aside from bats, vocal learning has anecdotally been reported in just a few other nonhuman mammals, including whales, seals and other primates. Mirjam Knörnschild, a bat expert at the Free University of Berlin who was not involved in the study, suspects vocal learning takes place in far more species. “The departure from the classical songbird model intrigued me most about this paper,” she said. “I think vocal plasticity, or vocal learning, is something not rare, but prominent, in the lives of many animals.”