 Prairie dogs with a taste for peanut butter, scientists reported recently, can now be vaccinated against plague — the Black Death that killed much of Europe centuries ago. Plague, which arrived in the United States through San Francisco in 1900, has persisted in rodents in the American Southwest. Their fleas may carry the Yersinia pestis bacterium, which causes the illness, and the parasites sometimes bite pets and humans. Last week, New Mexico reported its third human case of plague this year. (The once-unstoppable disease can be cured with antibiotics if it’s caught early.) Wildlife officers sometimes try to control plague among prairie dogs by dusting their colonies with insecticides. But that is labor intensive, and pesticide resistance in some fleas has been reported. Over the course of a three-year study described in the journal EcoHealth, scientists from the United States Geological Survey, working with federal, state and tribal park rangers in seven states, distributed baits — all of which were bright red, the size of a large sugar cube and peanut-butter flavored — in 58 prairie dog colonies scattered around the Rocky Mountains and the High Plains. Some contained a vaccine invented at the University of Wisconsin — Madison, and some contained a placebo. In later plague outbreaks, which occur cyclically, no colony was completely spared, but dogs in vaccinated colonies were nearly twice as likely to survive, the scientists found. The vaccine is now a candidate to join others used in wild populations. Meat-flavored rabies-vaccine baits have been given to foxes and other carnivores in Europe and North America. Vaccines against swine fever in wild boar, Lyme disease in rodents and tuberculosis in badgers are under development. If they could read the field studies, however, the prairie dogs might not feel undiluted gratitude. Part of the reason federal scientists developed the vaccine was to save the endangered black-footed ferret. Prairie dogs are considered vital to ferret survival — because they are its favorite prey.