 The capuchin monkeys of Serra da Capivara National Park in Brazil are well known for using rocks. They use them as hammers to crack open nuts. They use them for digging. They even use them to show off to potential mates. Now scientists report that they also spend time banging stones together, for no clear reason, producing sharp-edged stone flakes that are just like some of the first tools of early humans. They don’t use these flakes, so they are clearly not trying to produce them. The findings don’t challenge the record of human evolution in Africa, researchers say, in which such tools are found in a context that makes clear they were produced by hominids. But the flakes do show that neither the human hand nor brain is necessary for making such artifacts. Tomos Proffitt, a researcher at Oxford who has studied early human tools produced in Africa, and his colleagues in England and Brazil, reported the observations and an analysis of the rock flakes in the scientific journal, Nature. The rock-banging is puzzling. The monkeys can be seen smashing apart one quartzite cobble with another, and sometimes licking the surfaces of the broken cobbles. Perhaps, wrote the researchers, the stone may provide a nutrient the monkeys need. Dr. Proffitt was so surprised by the similarity of the flakes to human tools that he asked his colleagues who had observed the monkeys and collected the material, “Are you absolutely sure this was made by capuchins?” But the observations and video leave no doubt. And the flakes by themselves show all the evidence of repeated hammering of one stone by another seen in human-made tools. Among those signs are the sharp edges, identifiable impact points and hammer stones showing damage. All in all, he said the find “raises more questions than it answers,” including about what level of intelligence and physical skill was needed for the very first stone tool production technology to emerge. The Brazilian capuchins don’t quite seem to reach that mark. Even though, as the scientists write, these monkeys “use stone tools in more varied activities than any other known nonhuman primate” — and that includes chimpanzees —they have not grasped the idea of using those sharp flakes as potential tools. “Capuchins never use the flakes,” Dr. Proffitt said. “Never.”