 Humans did not invent the harpoon gun. Some sea snails and jellyfish shoot darts at prey. And one single-celled predator even fires a projectile with a line attached so it can tow its prize away. Scientists working at the University of British Columbia reported Friday that they had captured the first high-resolution video of this microscopic harpooner in action. Although it is tempting to call it Ishmael, its real name is Polykrikos kofoidii. The video may lack the literary depth of “Moby Dick,” but it is strong on action, and Polykrikos is arguably better armed than any whaleboat launched from Captain Ahab’s Pequod. For example, it fires a projectile that has several working parts. First is an initial dart, called a taeniocyst. Gregory S. Gavelis, the primary author of a paper in Science Advances describing the research, said, “It just explodes.” Dr. Gavelis, now a researcher at Arizona State University, was pursuing his Ph.D. with Brian S. Leander when he did the work on Polykrikos. Dr. Leander and a group of other scientists contributed to the paper. Dr. Gavelis said the scientists did not yet know the function of the taeniocyst. “It might be a little glue bomb,” he said. Next comes the nematocyst, a larger dart, with a long tube attached. But although it looks as if that tube might become the tow line, it doesn’t. Instead it acts like a hypodermic needle, apparently injecting something into the prey — perhaps a disabling venom. The nematocyst does contain a tow line that stretches back to Polykrikos, and the victorious predator is seen in the research video towing off its prize just like a whaleboat towing its kill back to the ship. Polykrikos is a dinoflagellate. These one-celled ocean creatures are among the most numerous and varied life-forms in the sea. Some of them are photosynthetic, and some cause red tides, which can harm or even kill large animals because of the poisons they produce. Dr. Gavelis has been fascinated by the dinoflagellates that hunt with projectiles since he was an undergraduate student, and wondered whether their darts were related to the stingers in jellyfish. But he said DNA studies showed that the two systems evolved separately. It seems that they look and function in similar ways because, as Dr. Gavelis put it, “There’s only so many ways to build a harpoon gun.” Polykrikos is common in oceans worldwide. But its armaments are put to shame by those of a rare dinoflagellate called Nematodinium, which has something like a Gatling gun inside it, able to fire 11 or more nematocysts. There is a kind of arms race between hunting dinoflagellates and their prey, Dr. Gavelis said, with a buildup of armor and more effective darts. The hunters may also be hunted, he said. This microscopic battle of the microbes may seem like part of another world, with little connection to human life. But one creature that Polykrikos hunts is the dinoflagellate that creates red tides. The red tides eventually disappear because the organisms that create them have a population bust. And Polykrikos may be causing that bust as it arrives and proliferates, preying on the other organism. “They gun down the harmful dinoflagellates,” Dr. Gavelis said.