 Arizona State University has suspended Lawrence M. Krauss, a prominent theoretical physicist, while the university investigates accusations of sexual misconduct over a decade. “In an effort to avoid further disruption to the normal course of business as the university continues to gather facts about the allegations, Krauss has been placed on paid leave and is prohibited from being on campus for the duration of the review,” the university said in a statement released on Tuesday. Last month, BuzzFeed reported that several women have accused Dr. Krauss of inappropriate behavior including groping women and making sexist jokes. The university said it would not release any additional details until its investigation is complete. Dr. Krauss, a professor in the university’s School of Earth and Space Exploration, is director of Arizona State’s Origins Project, a multidisciplinary research effort to tackle questions about life, the universe and complex social problems. He gained prominence for his book, “The Physics of Star Trek” in 1995. He later became one of the leaders of the so-called “skeptics” movement that espouses science over religion. He has also written essays and Op-Ed articles that were published in The Times. Michael Crow, president of Arizona State, told The State Press, an independent student news organization, that the university had received no complaints of harassment against Dr. Krauss. The university started the investigation after being contacted by BuzzFeed. Dr. Krauss moved to Arizona State from Case Western Reserve University in Ohio in 2008. On Wednesday afternoon, Dr. Krauss posted a lengthy rebuttal to the BuzzFeed article. He said many of the incidents reported by BuzzFeed were based on unsubstantiated rumors and others were distorted and misleading. “Has my language or demeanor sometimes made others feel uncomfortable?” Dr. Krauss wrote. “Clearly yes, and for that I sincerely apologize. Nevertheless, the BuzzFeed article effectively paints a false picture of me and my relationships with others through a mosaic constructed largely out of anonymous hearsay and a web of often vague innuendo.” The university is not the only one to take action against Dr. Krauss. The American Physical Society and other organizations have withdrawn invitations to Dr. Krauss for upcoming talks. The Center for Inquiry, an organization that promotes secularism, suspended its association with Dr. Krauss on Monday. On Tuesday, Dr. Krauss resigned from the board of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, which is best known for its Doomsday Clock that represents that danger of atomic war and other calamities to the planet. In his resignation letter, he said he was resigning from the board because he did not want to distract from the organization’s work. Additionally, a conference scheduled for next month to mark the 10th anniversary of the Origins Project has been canceled. “What we hope to do is reschedule it for another time,” Dr. Krauss said in an interview on Wednesday.