 Worms and fish do it. Birds and bees do it. But do jellyfish fall asleep? It seems like a simple question, but answering it required a multistep investigation by a trio of Caltech graduate students. Their answer, published Thursday in Current Biology, is that at least one group of jellyfish called Cassiopea, or the upside-down jellyfish, does snooze. The finding is the first documented example of sleep in an animal with a diffuse nerve net, a system of neurons that are spread throughout an organism and not organized around a brain. It challenges the common notion that sleep requires a brain. It also suggests sleep could be an ancient behavior because the group that includes jellyfish branched off from the last common ancestor of most living animals early on in evolution. Working together was natural for Claire Bedbrook, Michael Abrams and Ravi Nath. The three leading co-authors of the paper are all Ph.D. candidates in biology at the California Institute of Technology and close friends. The project started with an observation by Mr. Abrams that some upside-down jellyfish in his lab would immediately slow their pulsing when the lights were turned off. Over coffee one evening, he discussed this phenomenon with Mr. Nath, who had been studying sleep in roundworms and pondering whether other “simple” animals slept. The two decided to visit Mr. Abrams’s lab in the middle of the night, to see how the jellyfish were behaving. On their way over, they ran into Ms. Bedbrook and excitedly relayed their plan. “There’s no way these jellyfish sleep,” she said, before joining them. In the darkened lab, they observed a tankful of jellyfish pulsing infrequently and staying still for long periods of time — jellyfish that looked, in other words, like they were sleeping. Ms. Bedbrook started to believe they were onto something. To prove that jellyfish sleep, the students had to demonstrate that they fulfill three behavioral criteria. First, the animals must undergo a period of diminished activity, but they must also be able to be aroused from this state, to distinguish sleep from other states, like comas. Over six days and nights, the researchers monitored 23 jellyfish, which pulsed about 30 percent less at night than during the day. If fed or poked in the middle of the night, the jellyfish would temporarily stir. Next, the animals must exhibit decreased responsiveness to stimuli while sleeping. Upside-down jellyfish get their name from the fact that they sit upside-down on the seafloor — they don’t like to be suspended in water. To test their responsiveness, the scientists placed the jellyfish in little cubbies with removable bottoms that were elevated within the tank. When the researchers pulled the cubby bottoms out during the day, the creatures would immediately swim to the bottom of the tank. At night, however, they would sluggishly float around at first. Last, the animals must show an increased need for sleep if they are kept from it, so the biologists pulsed water through the jellyfish’s tank every 20 minutes at night to prevent the creatures from sleeping continuously. The following day and night, the jellyfish exhibited much lower levels of activity than normal, suggesting sleep deprivation. As a bonus, the researchers also showed that jellyfish get sleepy when exposed to melatonin, just as humans do — a hint that their underlying sleep mechanism may be similar to ours. Together, these experiments “do a good job of demonstrating that jellyfish fulfill the most fundamental criteria for sleep,” William Joiner, a sleep researcher at the University of California, San Diego, said in an email. The study also provides new fodder for thinking about the origins and functions of sleep, both of which are still unknown, said Dr. Joiner, who was not involved in the study. Sleep is often associated with having a brain because the behavior seems to be required for memory and learning, and because shared genes and mechanisms for sleep have been identified in all sorts of animals with brains, from worms and flies to mice and humans. But what we’ve found, at least in this jellyfish, is “you don’t need a brain to sleep,” Mr. Abrams said.