 An understated warning comes toward the end of a new documentary on a Titan 2 missile accident that shook the small town of Damascus, Ark., in mid-September 1980. The missile exploded in its underground silo, throwing aloft a thermonuclear warhead with a destructive potential greater than all the bombs dropped in World War II. Its detonation would have leveled much of Arkansas and sent clouds of deadly radioactivity raining down on the East Coast. Harold Brown was the defense secretary who breathed a sigh of relief once miliary officials had managed to locate the missing warhead and render it safe. As a young physicist, he had designed nuclear arms and risen to serve as Secretary of the Air Force and director of Defense Research and Engineering in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations. For President Carter, he ran the American military. Dr. Brown gives his take on the modern implications of the Titan 2 accident as part of the new documentary, “Command and Control,” released this month. He casts it as a cautionary tale, warning that the nation’s atomic complex has fallen into decline. “The degree of oversight and attention has, if anything, gotten worse because people don’t worry about nuclear war as much,” Dr. Brown remarked. President Obama presides over an arsenal of nuclear arms that experts see as equal in destructive force to 80,000 Hiroshima bombs. The Pentagon has embarked on command and control upgrades. It is improving communication links between the weapons and their guardians as well as providing better defenses against cyberattack. The new documentary, directed by Robert Kenner (“Food, Inc.”), profiles a deadly machine of war gone awry. The incident began when a 21-year-old worker accidentally dropped a socket from his wrench. It fell 70 feet and pierced the missile’s side, releasing a rush of explosive fuel. “We were fortunate to film in a decommissioned complex that is essentially a replica of the accident site,” Mr. Kenner said, adding that the old missile silo let him “take this incredible story and really bring it to life.” The film relives the feverish struggle to prevent a nuclear blast from the nation’s most powerful warhead. Its mix of documentary footage and vivid recreations are punctuated with the recollections of eyewitnesses — the worker who dropped the socket, the heroic men fighting off disaster, the scientist who designed the warhead. The minute-by-minute tale reveals that, nearby in Hot Springs, a political convention was getting underway attended by Vice President Walter Mondale, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas and Democratic Senator David Pryor. Skip Rutherford, an aide to the senator, recalls how he spoke from his home in Little Rock to an airman at the Titan base. Afterward, he looked out his living room window at people unaware of the danger. “And I thought, ‘Do I run out on the street and say, ‘We’ve got a potential nuclear explosion 46 miles from here?’ Do I grab my friends and neighbors and get in the car and start driving? What do you do?’” “Command and Control” is based on the 2013 book of the same title by Eric Schlosser, author of “Fast Food Nation.” His book opened with the Titan 2 incident and was a finalist for the 2014 Pulitzer Prize in history. The documentary premiered at the Tribeca Film Festival in April and opens this month at select theaters in North America, including Film Forum in New York City from Sept. 14 to Sept. 24. A list of the showings can be found at the film’s website, www.commandandcontrolfilm.com.