 In a “value for money” assessment released this month, Britain’s foreign aid agency gave top ratings to three organizations to which it donates: the World Bank; the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria; and GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance. But British officials took a far dimmer view of one well-known aid organization, Unesco, describing it as structurally weak. The Department for International Development, known as DfID (pronounced DIFF-id), is Britain’s equivalent of the United States Agency for International Development, overseeing donations toward disaster relief, health, development and culture. The new assessment is the second time since 2011 that DfID has publicly graded its recipients. Along with the United States, Britain is among the world’s top aid donors. The Nordic countries, especially Norway, are the biggest givers relative to the size of their economies. Each aid organization got two grades: one for how well its mission matched the government’s goals, and one for “organizational strength,” a measure of clarity of purpose, transparency and efficient use of donations to get results. Those focused on health did best. Ratings were given only for multilateral agencies — ones overseen by multiple countries — so medical charities like Doctors Without Borders or Partners in Health, for example, were not graded. The International Committee of the Red Cross, the United Nations Children’s Fund and Unitaid were each just below the top three. The World Health Organization did well in terms of meeting the government’s aims, but was graded only “adequate” in organizational strength. British officials were most critical of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, or Unesco. It was the only recipient ranked “weak” in organizational strength. Within hours, Unesco issued an angry response, with Irina Bokova, the organization’s director general, saying the ratings were based on “flawed methodology” that “misrepresents and underestimates Unesco’s achievements.” As in 2011, the British review was brief, blunt and refreshingly free of jargon. The author of the previous review, Andrew Mitchell, Britain’s secretary of state for international development, had expressed “extreme concern” at the weaknesses of some recipients. “I will be taking a very tough approach to these organizations,” he warned. “We will not tolerate waste, inefficiency or a failure to focus on poverty reduction.” Mr. Mitchell gave low rankings to Unesco and other United Nations organizations focusing on migration, labor, women, industrial development and housing. The current international development secretary, Priti Patel, wrote this month that she would “push the whole development system to become more effective, following the money, the people and the outcomes.”