 Some British red squirrels — cute and pointy-eared, like Beatrix Potter’s Squirrel Nutkin — carry a medieval form of human leprosy, scientists have learned. Red squirrels are disappearing from the British Isles, and researchers performed DNA tests on more than 100 animals as part of study to try to find out why. All 25 roadkill specimens collected on Brownsea Island, off England’s south coast, were infected with Mycobacterium leprae. Leprosy has not been found in humans in Britain since the 1500s. But the M. leprae strain carried by the squirrels is a close genetic relative to one found in a skeleton buried in nearby Winchester 730 years ago, said the researchers, whose work appeared Wednesday in the journal Science. Because red squirrels are shy and rarely let people touch them, the transmission risk is low, said Stewart T. Cole, the director of the Global Health Institute at the Federal Polytechnical School of Lausanne, Switzerland, and an author of the study. Americans who hunt armadillos or keep them as pets have caught leprosy from them, however, so there is a theoretical risk, Dr. Cole said, and park rangers who handle squirrels should wear gloves. Europeans used to trap red squirrels for meat and fur, and transmission may have once been more common, he added. Nine other squirrels gathered in Ireland and Scotland were found to harbor Mycobacterium lepromatosis, a more dangerous form of leprosy discovered in 2008 and previously known to infect only humans in Mexico and the Caribbean. Not all infected squirrels had leprosy symptoms, but some had large lumps and hair loss on their ears, heads and feet. About 220,000 humans, mostly in Asia, Africa and South America, become infected with leprosy each year. Although it can be cured by lengthy antibiotic treatment, the disease is often not detected until it has damaged nerves in the hands, feet and face, which leaves victims unable to feel burns, cuts and ulcers that can cause serious deformities. Red squirrels inhabit Europe and Asia from Ireland to Russia’s eastern Kamchatka Peninsula, although some have fur so dark it appears black. Only about 140,000 remain in Britain, but leprosy is not to blame. Their numbers have been reduced by habitat loss, competition with millions of American grey squirrels, and a pox virus introduced by American squirrels. Leprosy symptoms were not seen in any grey squirrels, Dr. Cole said, and the few the team tested had no bacteria. “We only looked at four,” Dr. Cole admitted. “To be honest, the red squirrels are very popular, whereas the grey are regarded as vermin.”