 David Elliott was herding sheep on his motorbike in Queensland, Australia, in 2005 when he came across a pile of fossilized dinosaur bones. He, his wife Judy and their children began piecing together tailbones, toe bones and bits of limbs. Now, 11 years later, paleontologists have confirmed that the fragments the family collected belong to a new species of titanosaur, a long-necked behemoth that roamed the area about 95 million years ago. Its official name, fittingly, is Savannasaurus elliottorum. But to the Elliotts, it’s “Wade.” Paleontologists at the Australian Age of Dinosaurs Museum of Natural History, where Mr. Elliott is the executive chairman, said Wade was one of Australia’s most complete sauropods, the dinosaur family that includes titanosaurs. The researchers believe the findings may provide insight into why these massive animals migrated from present-day South America into present-day Australia and Antarctica, back when the three were connected as a part of the landmass Gondwana. The results were published on Thursday in the journal Scientific Reports. Sauropods were thick and round like hippopotamuses, with long legs and towering necks. The barrel-chested Wade, the most rotund sauropod found so far, weighed about 22 tons. It was more than 40 feet long — enough to stretch from one hoop to the half-court line on a basketball court — and about 20 feet high. One reason it took paleontologists so long to classify Wade as a new species had to do with where it was found. Most of Wade’s remains were trapped in a boulder. Even with the help of hundreds of volunteer fossil enthusiasts, about a decade passed before Wade was finally extracted. Around 40 bones were recovered from the boulder, representing 20 percent to 25 percent of the beast’s mass. The haul included several ribs, part of its front legs and bits of backbone. But perhaps the most important discovery was the pelvis. It offered the first hint of how unique a find Wade was. “I always suspected that Wade might be a new species on the basis of its pelvis,” Mr. Elliott said in an email. “Only one edge of the pelvis was exposed, and the pelvic girdle looked like a set of eagle’s wings in the rock.” The researchers compared Wade with Diamantinasaurus matildae, another titanosaur found in Queensland, to see if they were the same species. But Wade’s pelvis was much thinner and felt lighter. Also, Mr. Elliott said, it appeared as if Wade’s pelvis bones were fused, unlike those of “Matilda,” as the D. matildae is known. “The pelvis was one of the big clues that told us that these were two totally different types of titanosaurs,” said Stephen Poropat, a paleontologist at the museum and the lead author. Dr. Poropat spent several years examining Wade and comparing it with the remains of sauropods around the world, including Argentina, a titanosaur hotbed. But he found no identical match. In addition to Wade, the team also reported finding a specimen of D. matildae, only the second one ever discovered. It is the first sauropod in Australia ever found with its skull partially intact. The braincase helped fill in some gaps in the species’ anatomy that paleontologists were missing, and also provided insight as to where that titanosaur fit in the sauropod tree of life. Both specimens, Dr. Poropat said, have helped show how titanosaurs were dispersed worldwide. He suggested that an ancestor to the two originated in South America and moved to Australia by way of Antarctica during a time when a change in climate made the area more accessible, most likely around 105 million years ago. “This is a great finding,” Diego Pol, a paleontologist at Paleontological Museum Egidio Feruglio in Argentina, who was not involved in the study, said in an email. Although titanosaurs were the most successful group of herbivores during the dinosaur era, Dr. Pol added, “current knowledge on what kind of titanosaurs were living in Australia is really, really scarce.” He noted that the authors’ conclusion that titanosaurs came from South America to Antarctica and Australia must be confirmed with more data. He said that their case would be strengthened if more Savannasaurus relatives are uncovered in either South America or Antarctica.