 Last week, NASA announced that it would open an official account at Giphy, a GIF database and social media platform, bringing the space agency up to speed with the way young people communicate in the internet age. Well, kind of. The agency announced its new account (and one on Pinterest) in somewhat bureaucratic, defiantly non-millennial terms. “NASA engages and inspires the public by sharing unique content through social media,” it said in a news release. “Don’t forget to check out NASA’s accounts regularly, as there are more Pins and GIFs to come.” (Animated GIFs — or graphics interchange format — are short, looped video clips often shared around the internet. You may not know the term, but you’ve seen them.) Part of NASA’s official mission is to educate the public, and the agency has been using new media to accomplish that task for more than half a century, even as the cutting edge has shifted from the TV screen to the computer screen. • On July 20, 1969, an estimated 600 million people watched live as the astronauts Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin become the first humans to walk on the moon. • During the 1980s, NASA specialists communicated with interested members of the public on Usenet, a digital forerunner of modern web forums — like an early version of Reddit’s A.M.A.’s. • In the 1990s, NASA had a site on Gopher, an early system for sharing information over the internet, which featured downloadable image links and technical papers. Tyler Menzel, Giphy’s editorial director, said that NASA had approached them about the partnership. The agency’s decades of “mind blowing footage of planets, space travel and astronauts flipping around in zero gravity” made it an ideal partner, he said. “What more would you want from a partner?” he asked. “Someone comes to you and is like, ‘We’ve got this. What do we do with it now?’ ” The site’s editorial team helped NASA translate its videos into the more than 462 short clips now featured on its giphy page, no charge, it said. They include footage of engineers celebrating in a mission control room, astronauts experimenting aboard a spacecraft and a rover that seems to wave from the surface of Mars. Steve Jones, a professor at the University of Illinois who specializes in new media, said communicating with the public has become more complicated for NASA as the internet has grown more commercial since those early days of Usenet forum chats. “I think they’ve done a good job within the constraints that they have to operate,” he said. “As a government agency, they can’t play favorites with corporate entities,” he added. “And they can reach millions of people easily; I think they have to be careful about how they do that.” Tim Pyle, a graphic artist who has worked with NASA for over a decade, said that he created his first GIF for the agency about a year and a half ago. It was an artistic imagination of Kepler-452b, an exoplanet that NASA described as Earth’s “bigger, older cousin.” “I love what an animated GIF like this gives you,” Mr. Pyle said. “There’s no real beginning or end to it, which I think creates a very ‘you are there’ vibe. You can imagine sitting in your spaceship parked next to this thing, just watching it spinning on its axis forever.” GIFs have become a ubiquitous feature of digital communication. If emojis can be seen as the virtual equivalent of body language, as some linguists have argued, then GIFs could be seen as representing particularly outsized gestures, experts say. Loren Grush, who reports on space for The Verge, described GIFs as essential to online expression. “As someone who writes about space and who communicates primarily with moving images that last just a few seconds in length, a NASA Giphy account is basically an entire dictionary for me,” she wrote. (Ms. Grush is the daughter of two former NASA engineers.) Jason Eppink, a curator of digital media at the Museum of the Moving Image in Queens who recently put together an exhibit on reaction GIFs, explained the operative feature of GIFs. He said that GIFs were one of the few mediums people were content to watch over and over again, as the duration of each loop is so short, often only a few seconds. He said that NASA was a particularly good fit for the medium, both because space “captures the imagination” as the best GIFs do, and because celestial bodies tend to do the same thing over and over again. “Anything that’s been around for billions of years is probably doing something repeatable,” he said. “The motion of the stars, planets and moons, all orbiting other bodies: There’s a sort of cosmic symmetry there that intuitively seems to make sense for GIFs.”