 The village of Makanda, Ill., is about to experience nearly three minutes of fame. That’s roughly the amount of time the moon will completely block the sun on Aug. 21 in this small community in southern Illinois — the longest duration of totality anywhere in the United States during the solar eclipse, according to NASA. The total solar eclipse is expected to start around 10:16 a.m. in Oregon and move diagonally across the country until it ends in South Carolina around 2:48 p.m. (The times are local.) The duration of totality, the period during which the moon completely covers the sun, varies by location. The difference has to do with the geometry of the Earth and its distance from the moon, said Ernie Wright, a data visualizer at NASA. Totality will be shorter in Oregon because that part of the Earth is tilted away from the moon and farther from it. The moon’s shadow also will move more quickly across Oregon, compared with the middle of the country. “When it hits the edge of the Earth, it has to swoop around the whole curve, so it moves quite a bit faster,” Mr. Wright said. Eclipse calculators predict the moon’s shadow will move about 2,410 miles per hour in western Oregon, 1,462 m.p.h. in western Kentucky and 1,502 m.p.h. near Charleston, S.C. Totality will last longer in places where the shadow moves slower. Totality is longest where the Earth is farthest from the sun and closest to the moon. During this solar eclipse, that period will occur above Makanda, which will go dark for two minutes and 41 seconds. Normally, Makanda is a village of about 600 residents where, locals say, everyone knows their neighbors’ names and dogs nap in the road for 10 minutes at a time without being roused. Next week, Makanda will be bursting at the seams with thousands of visitors who want to drink in the celestial phenomenon for as long as possible. The community has been preparing for the onslaught for three years now, arranging for basic necessities like portable toilets and ice water. Joe McFarland, head of the village’s eclipse planning effort, compares it to planning the Olympic Games — at least, it has felt like that. This is a town that’s not used to more than a handful of visitors per day. The village can host 3,000 people and has only 75 parking spaces, Mr. McFarland said. He is encouraging people to try to watch the eclipse from nearby towns. “We can’t possibly accommodate the thousands of people who’d like to stand here,” he said. Mr. Wright said most places within an hour’s drive of Makanda will experience similar durations of totality. “There’s a whole swath that’s within a tenth of a second of the longest duration,” he said.