 The scientific study of animal behavior has meant, among other things, that humans have had to accept that they are not the only animals that use tools, show emotions and recognize themselves in a mirror. Still, it’s a bit strange to see aging bonobos looking as if they need some reading glasses. They aren’t trying to decipher the small-print ingredients for over-the-counter pain relievers (another human-over-40 habit). They’re trying to find the itty-bitty lice in each other’s fur, above right, so they can do their neighborly and familial grooming duty, and have a snack. Heungjin Ryu and colleagues from Kyoto University in Japan and the University of St. Andrews in Scotland, recorded 14 bonobos grooming each other at the Luo Scientific Reserve in the Democratic Republic of Congo, where the apes have been part of a decades-long study. As the scientists report in Current Biology, the videos show that grooming distance increases with age much the way it does in humans. People, of course, are usually reading or sewing or trying to tie tiny artificial flies on the end of a fishing line. For apes, nit-picking, a time-honored skill that parents of school-age children with lice know all too well, puts similar demands on the eyes. Mr. Ryu, a Ph.D. student, said that what seemed to be farsightedness in older bonobos had been noticed before, but not rigorously studied. He and his colleagues decided to take a closer look. The scientists knew the ages of the bonobos they were recording, so they just had to get accurate distance measures. They did this by first photographing the ears of each animal and then photographing a ruler at the same distance. That let them come up with an ear length, which they used to calculate the distance from eye to louse. While 24-year-old L.B. (his identification for the long-term study) groomed J.D. with his eyes about four inches away, 45-year-old T.N. had to keep J.D. about 16 inches away. The scientists found that the grooming distance didn’t change based on the gender of the bonobos or how closely they were related. But it changed with age very much the way human sight changes. From the late 30s to early 40s, the grooming distance increased. Age-related farsightedness is thought to be caused by changes in the eye’s lens and muscles. Bonobos are as close to us as chimpanzees, so the similarity, while striking to see, could be expected. However the evolutionary split that led on one side to the great apes, including bonobos and chimpanzees, and on the other to human beings, happened millions of years ago so there was plenty of time for change. For example, in an odd side note in the published paper, the authors pointed out that another sign of aging in humans does not appear in bonobos. Human ears get longer as we age. The ears of bonobos do not.