 There’s something odd about turtle-headed sea snakes. It’s not their name, or that they give live birth instead of laying eggs, or that they paddle more than they slither. It’s their skin. For years, researchers noticed that the aquatic snakes living in waters near human activity had jet-black skin, but most others, in more pristine waters, were speckled or banded. “It’s always been a puzzle,” said Richard Shine, an evolutionary ecologist at the University of Sydney who has been studying sea snakes for decades. But now, in a report published last week in Current Biology, Dr. Shine and his colleagues suggested that the varied coloration of sea snakes is probably an adaptation that helps them deal with pollution. It’s sort of like the moths in Europe that swapped speckled for black wings during the Industrial Revolution, evading hungry birds by blending in with coal dust. Only, rather than camouflage, black sea snake skin may act more like a pollution trap collecting heavy metals absorbed by the snakes and then cleaning them out as the skin is shed. Near New Caledonia, a French archipelago in the southern Pacific Ocean, turtle-headed sea snakes swim around, gobbling up fish eggs from the bottoms of bays and lagoons. On these islands, tourists sunbathe on beaches, cars drive on roads and workers mine nickel in the mountains. When it rains, pipes and rivers carry runoff from these activities and dump it directly into the homes of sea snakes. Dr. Shine observed that most of the sea snakes there were black — as they were in a remote atoll nearby that was used as a bombing range. This was weird, he thought, because in the rest of their range, from northern Australia to Vietnam, about 95 percent of the sea snakes wrapped themselves in skins of blue and black bands or speckles. There seemed to be no advantage. But then Claire Goiran, a marine biologist at Labex Corail &amp; Université de la Nouvelle-Calédonie in New Caledonia and lead author of the study, told Dr. Shine about black pigeons that dominated the streets of Paris. She had learned that in their black feathers, they collected metals from the city and shed them when they molted. Maybe the sea snakes did something similar. To find out, the researchers tested the shed skins of black and banded sea snakes for more than a dozen trace minerals, including zinc, arsenic, cobalt and nickel. As expected, the black skin — whether it belonged to a whole black snake or just a black band — contained more of the metals. Trying to figure out the evolutionary advantage of this correlation, the researchers determined that it wasn’t camouflage. And it didn’t make snakes sexier to other snakes. They reasoned that the minerals accumulated in the water, moved up the food chain and became sequestered in the black skin. The dark skin also attracted an algae, which took residence on the snakes’ bodies, creating a heavy, velvety cloak. To get rid of the algae, which slowed them down in the water, the snakes shed their skin more often, protecting them from levels of metals that are toxic in other animals. Like the urban moths and pigeons, their skin may have adapted to deal with a stressful environment. “On the one hand it’s encouraging that wildlife can adapt very rapidly to the new challenges we’re imposing on them. On the other hand, there are bound to be limitations to that resilience,” Dr. Shine said. “We can’t keep treating natural ecosystems the way we do without losing some pretty spectacular animals.”