 Exactly 100 years ago this summer, New York City was hit by one of the worst epidemics it had ever seen: the first explosive American outbreak of infantile paralysis — a disease later known as polio. It was a mystifying, terrifying illness. Most victims were toddlers. Initially, they didn’t even look terribly ill; often, they woke up feverish and cranky, saying their necks hurt. Soon, however, instead of climbing out of bed, they were able only to drag themselves along the floor, legs flopping behind. Within a few hours, in some cases, they would struggle to breathe, and then die. By autumn, 6,000 were dead of polio, mostly children, and 21,000 were temporarily or permanently paralyzed. That outbreak was limited to the Northeast, but it established a pattern. Polio is a hot-weather disease, and there were irregular but frequent summer epidemics until vaccines ended the polio era. For the next 60 years, children and teenagers with twisted spines and withered legs were a common sight in America. Now that the Zika virus has landed in the continental United States, and now that polio has re-emerged in Africa after two years without a case, it may be instructive to look back at New York’s early epidemic. It featured many of the problems that have bedeviled our response to the Zika epidemic: false rumors, ethnic prejudice and ineffective measures. In 1916, with polio’s cause still vague, the city responded as it had to dysentery, typhoid and tuberculosis: Officials fiercely emphasized cleanliness. Workers hosed down streets daily with four million gallons of water and admonished New Yorkers to clean house. Use damp mops, not dry brooms, they said. Sprinkle wet sawdust or tea leaves before sweeping. Had polio been a hantavirus, transmitted in dried mouse urine, that might have been sensible advice. But polio is carried in feces, and street-washing may only have spread the virus along wet gutters. Bad advice had come straight from the top. Because he had done research on the wrong animal model — a type of monkey that could not be infected orally — Dr. Simon Flexner, the director of the prestigious new Rockefeller Institute, insisted that polio infected through the nose, in dust or sneezes. Dogs and cats were said to be carriers, and terrified owners flagged down Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals wagons to hand over their pets, or simply turned them loose. Precinct houses were mobbed by boys dragging in strays for bounties. The S.P.C.A. and the police killed 72,000 cats and 8,000 dogs. Citizens bombarded the city’s Board of Health with their own theories about the cause. According to Smithsonian magazine, the suspects were: mosquitoes, sewers, the Gowanus Canal, groundwater, ice cream cones, excavations, flies, bedbugs, street dust, cornflakes, subways, water parasites, metal cooking utensils, bullet factory gases, hunching at school desks, mercury, white clothing, volcanoes, electricity, sunburn, secondhand bedding, decayed food, dirty milk bottles, coins in the mouth and tobacco. As with Zika today in Brazil, a pesticide was widely blamed: tree spray containing arsenate of lead. Many lashed out at immigrants. In the 1840s, the Irish were blamed for cholera, and in the 1890s, the Jews for tuberculosis. The first child to be paralyzed lived in a modest Italian neighborhood east of the Gowanus in Brooklyn. Polio soon jumped to Pigtown, a gritty pig-farming area, and most of the first 20 cases were in Italian children. Health officials swarmed Italian neighborhoods, nailing quarantine signs to doors. In fact, the residents may have only been the innocent first victims. There was no major outbreak in Italy, and would not be until the 1930s. Ellis Island inspectors reported no surge in paralysis among new arrivals. The lethal strain may have been domestic. According to David M. Oshinsky in “Polio, an American Story,” a polio outbreak in a tiny valley near Rutland, Vt., had killed 18 and paralyzed 50 back in 1894. Another theory — not proven, and with some evidence against it — was that the virus was an escapee from Dr. Flexner’s lab, where he was creating new monkey-human hybrid strains. Even greater than the discrimination against Italians was that against all children from New York. Outside the city, they were objects of horror. As parents fled with their youngsters, cities from Hoboken, N.J., to Boston posted police officers on train platforms and ferry slips, turning back anyone younger than 16. On Long Island highways, “health inspectors” — sometimes virtually vigilantes — flagged down cars to look for children. The Public Health Service issued “exit certificates” to children considered polio-free; officials gave out 5,225 in a single July day. Even that could fail. Officials in Schodack, N.Y., announced $50 fines for outsiders with children and said they “would not recognize any certificate, no matter by whom signed.” In New York City itself, children were barred from theaters, libraries and ball games. Sunday schools closed, and church picnics, Fourth of July parades and Italian saints’ festivals were canceled. Parents were advised that healthy children might go to parks but should never play in groups larger than three. Sick children — even those with colds — fared far worse. Initially, home quarantine was used, but when hospitals were established, children were taken away. In some, polio was diagnosed by painful, dangerous lumbar puncture. Results took days, and children with simple fevers were sometimes shut in with polio victims and died. Some hospitals let mothers comfort terrified children; some barred all visitors, sending out notices naming the paralyzed and the dead. Public funerals for victims were outlawed. There were ferocious backlashes. Wealthy families hired private nurses, so it was the poor whose children were taken. One aggressive Brooklyn school nurse, according to The New York Times, received a note from the Black Hand, the forerunner of the American Mafia: “If you report any more of our babies to the Board of Health, we will kill you.” Towns like Oyster Bay, on Long Island, became notorious when wealthy estate owners — among them former President Theodore Roosevelt — blamed poor Italian and Polish residents for the polio epidemic and made the police seize children and issue fines for uncollected trash. Brutality ultimately did not work. Oyster Bay reported nine cases per 1,000 residents, five times the New York City rate, only a fraction of them in poor immigrant children. Instead, the virus was stopped annually by winter, its epidemic peaks tamed by rising herd immunity and ultimately banished by a vaccine. All of which may happen with Zika — although it can’t happen too soon.