 Every year in Texas, millions of bluebonnets bloom after warm weather, just at the cusp of spring. Bumpy blankets of blue spread across pastures, parks and highway shoulders. And because of a series of warm days in February, this year’s show has already begun. It’s expected to peak in the next week or two, so grab your camera and hop in the car — it’s time to get out there and find them. “When you see acres and acres or oceans of bluebonnets, it can be stunning,” said Andrea DeLong-Amaya, a horticulturalist at Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center at the University of Texas at Austin. And already, professional and amateur photographers are posting their sightings from across the state on Instagram. It’s a Texan tradition to get your photo taken with bluebonnets each year. Even along highways, the solid-colored floral displays are beautiful. Seeds grow well there because highways provide ample, open spaces. And mowing actually helps the flowers compete with other vegetation, Ms. DeLong-Amaya said. For this reason, and because highways reflect so much heat, bluebonnets bloom earlier along roads than they would in a garden. Jama Pantel, an Austin-based photographer who posted her first shots from around Austin on Instagram this week, uses the arrival of highway bluebonnets as a sign to start scouting safer locations for photo shoots. “It’s just a rite of passage for any Texan,” she said. In 1965, Lady Bird Johnson, the former first lady, Texan and wildflower lover, championed the Highway Beautification Act, which replaced billboards with natural landscapes and wildflowers on highways across the country. Ms. DeLong-Amaya said the bluebonnet’s appeal could be that the Texas bluebonnet (Lupinus texensis) for the most part grows only in Texas. A blue that blue is also hard to find in nature. According to David Lee’s book, “Nature’s Palette, The Science of Plant Color,” only about 10 percent of flowering plants are blue. Plants don’t have any true blue pigments as they do for red. Instead, plants alter their pigments (anthocyanins, which are involved in turning fall foliage red) in various ways to make them appear blue. Ms. DeLong-Amaya expects the floral display this year to be more sporadic than in years past because of the state’s relatively warm winter. So it’s best to take advantage when you can: Bluebonnets are annuals, and after they drop seeds, all the living plants will be dead around August. If you want to plant your own, she said, wait for fall. You can speed the germination process by breaking down the seeds’ tough shells so they’re thin enough for the moisture to seep in. Workers at the Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center sometimes put seeds in the freezer before pouring boiling water on them and letting them soak for a day or two. Then they pick out the plump ones with cracked shells for planting. If you’d rather not wait, however, Ms. Pantel suggests heading to parks or out along the highway in almost any direction. For nice displays, try McKinney Falls State Park, Brushy Creek Lake Park or head down Highways 71 or 290 west toward the Hill Country, Willow City Loop near Fredericksburg and Burnet, the “Bluebonnet Capital of Texas,” which attracts 30,000 people each year to its festival. Chappell Hill also hosts a festival in April. “Turn down back roads, side roads and country roads,” Ms. Pantel said. “You can see beautiful scenes any which way you look.”