 When we look up at the night sky, we see twinkling stars. When a satellite orbiting a million miles away looks down upon Earth, it sees twinkles, too. For years NASA scientists, including the renowned astronomer Carl Sagan, wondered what the mysterious glints of light appearing on satellite images were. Now, a team of researchers thinks it has uncovered what causes the unexpected flashes. “These glints are from ice crystals,” said Alexander Marshak, a research scientist at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland and the lead author of a study published Monday in Geophysical Research Letters. When oriented just right, he said, the tiny ice particles floating high within clouds reflect sunlight in dazzling fashion. And our ability to spot them on Earth could one day help us study the atmospheres of planets that orbit distant stars. Dr. Marshak is the deputy project scientist for the Deep Space Climate Observatory satellite, or Dscovr, which is operated by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The satellite, which was launched in June 2015, uses instruments that study the sun and also some focused on Earth, which helps with studies of the planet’s climate and how it is changing. A Trump administration budget blueprint for NASA proposed discontinuing its Earth-focused instruments. Many people who viewed the images posted by NASA noticed the bright flashes and wrote to Dr. Marshak asking what they were. Dr. Marshak began to investigate, and he came across early observations of the lights described by Dr. Sagan and colleagues in 1993. They had seen the mirrorlike reflections in satellite images taken by the Galileo spacecraft as it swung around Earth en route to Jupiter. “He saw many, many sun glints, and he mentioned it only over the oceans,” Dr. Marshak said. The explanation offered for the flashes was that they were reflections from the smooth surface of the water. But when Dr. Marshak reviewed the images from Galileo, he saw the flashes also appeared over land, as they did in the images from Dscovr. With his colleagues, he analyzed about 860 glints of light observed by Dscovr from the time it reached orbit through August 2016, and recorded the latitudes at which they appeared on the planet. The team thought that if the flashes were caused by reflections of sunlight, rather than something like lightning, the glints would appear only at certain latitudes on the globe, which were dependent on the angles of the sun, Earth and the satellite. When the team plotted the glints’ locations, it found that the flashes all fell within the expected latitudes, confirming that they were reflections of sunlight. Next the team wanted to see if the reflections came from surfaces on the ground, like lakes, or from clouds in the sky. It turned to another tool aboard Dscovr that tracks the location of cirrus clouds, which are wispy and found more than three miles high. The researchers found that the locations of the clouds matched with the locations of the glints. The team concluded that tiny ice crystals floating within clouds at high altitudes in a horizontal arrangement were positioned just right to create the sun glints. “What amazed us most of all was that from one million miles away we can find the shape and the size of ice crystals, which are the size of maybe 100 microns or 50 microns,” Dr. Marshak said. He added that satellites could one day use this technology to investigate whether exoplanets show signs of water in their atmospheres, and potentially even signs of habitable environments. “Mystery flies around us,” he said, “and we need the proper tools to resolve these mysteries.”