 A decade ago, a group of scientists stumbled upon an octopus tending her eggs on a rocky outcropping off the coast of California, nearly 4,600 feet below the surface. They checked in on her every few months and shocked the world with their discovery that she had brooded her eggs for a record 53 months. This “Octomom,” as they called her, was a member of a genus of wart-covered octopuses called Graneledone, which live up to 9,500 feet below the ocean’s surface. These slimy sea aliens exist in great numbers in nearly all of the world’s oceans. But there are a handful of species within this particular octopus family that look very similar, which makes distinguishing them a challenge for marine scientists. “If we can’t tell them apart, how do we know anything about biodiversity?” said Janet Voight, a biologist at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago. Worried about how proposals for deep sea mining might threaten the oceans, including the habitat and behavior of these mysterious octopuses, she set out to devise a system to tell them apart. And in a paper published this week in Marine Biology Research, Dr. Voight and her colleague, Jessica Kurth, a biologist at Pennsylvania State University, revealed how the distribution of warts on the bodies of at least two octopus species in this important genus might be their distinguishing feature. There are a variety of ways to distinguish one species of octopus from another: the length of their arms, the size of their suckers, the texture of their skin, the tip of the male’s sex arm or colors of the skin or around the eyes. “But not in this group. Nothing works in these guys,” Dr. Voight said. Members of Graneledone are actually kind of cute. They have two dark, big eyes mounted on a bulbous, head-like thing called a mantle with eight sucker-lined arms sticking out. They have no ink sac. Their colors, vibrant or pale, don’t appear to be that important: Sometimes they’re pink or purple or orange. Dr. Voight has seen just half of the body of one blanch white when threatened. But then, like only a few other kinds of octopuses, they have all these warts — covering the arms and mantle. “Some of the warts are really like warts, like the caricatures of witches,” Dr. Voight said, “and others are really subtle.” But it’s not the bumpiness of their warts that’s special, the team found, after examining more than 70 dead specimens, as well as images obtained from deep sea dives. They found differences in how the warts spread out across the mantle and down the arms. In Graneledone pacifica, a commonly found species from the North Pacific, warts moved across the mantle, stopping abruptly at the back of it, like a clean line on a short haircut. But in G. verrucosa, another commonly found species from the northwest Atlantic, the warts gradually disappeared toward the back of the mantle like a smooth fade. The Pacific species was generally more warty, with its farthest arm wart from the body extending further out along the arm than was found on its Atlantic cousin. Dr. Voight acknowledges that this method may apply only to these two species at this time, but she remains hopeful that knowing more about aquatic creatures like Graneledone octopuses could increase knowledge of biodiversity in our threatened, mysterious oceans.