 The tale of the Tasmanian tiger was tragic. Once numerous across Tasmania, the doglike marsupial was branded a sheep killer by colonists in the 1830s and hunted to extinction. The last of its kind, Benjamin, died in a zoo in 1936, and with it many secrets into the animals’ lives were lost. The striped creature, which is also known as the thylacine, was hardly studied when it was alive, depriving scientists of understanding the behavior of an important predator from Australia’s recent biological past. Now, for the first time, researchers have performed neural scans on the extinct carnivore’s brain, revealing insights that had been lost since the species went extinct. “Part of the myth about them is what exactly did they eat, how did they hunt and were they social?” said Dr. Gregory Berns, a neuroscientist at Emory University and lead author on the study, which was published Wednesday in the journal PLOS One. “These are questions nobody really knows the answers to.” Dr. Berns’s main research pertains to dogs and the inner workings of the canine brain, but after learning more about Tasmanian tigers, he became fascinated by the beasts. With their slender bodies, long snouts and sharp teeth, Tasmanian tigers looked as if they could be related to dogs, wolves or coyotes. But actually they are separated by more than 150 million years of evolution. It is a classic example of convergent evolution, in which two organisms that are not closely related develop similar features because of the environment they adapted to and the ecological role they played. To better understand thylacines, Dr. Berns spent two years tracking down two preserved Tasmanian tiger brains, one at the Smithsonian Institution and the other at the Australian Museum. Their brains, like those of all marsupials, are very different from the brains of placental mammals. The biggest difference is that they lack a corpus callosum, which is the part of the brain that connects the left and right hemispheres. Because of the differences, Dr. Berns said, if he wanted to make any sense out of the Tasmanian tiger brain, he could not compare it with one of his dog brain scans. Instead, he needed to analyze it against something much more similar. “That’s where the devil comes into the picture,” Dr. Berns said. The Tasmanian devil, a carnivorous marsupial that mostly scavenges for food, is one of the Tasmanian tiger’s closest living relatives. Dr. Berns collected two Tasmanian devil brains, scanned them and compared them with the two Tasmanian tiger brains. For the brain scans, he used magnetic resonance imaging to study the gray matter, and diffusion tensor imaging to study the white matter. From the scans Dr. Berns found that Tasmanian tigers had a larger brain, particularly the frontal lobes. The differences suggested that Tasmanian tigers were smarter than Tasmanian devils and used their cortex more for planning and decision-making, Dr. Berns said. That, he said, further supported the idea that Tasmanian tigers were avid hunters, rather than scavengers like Tasmanian devils. Leah Krubitzer, a neuroscientist from the University of California, Davis, who was not involved in the study, called the work a “heroic effort” for scanning brains of the extinct animal. “The authors cleverly used the best available techniques to examine brain organization in nonliving brains that were in not very good condition,” she said. And Dr. Berns said his research could change our understanding of these extinct Australian predators. “Go back 100 years, people dismissed thylacines as stupid animals because they weren’t fast moving,” he said. He added that what he could see of the Tasmanian tigers’ brains revealed that “they were probably quite intelligent.”