 About 375 million years ago, a pioneering fish crawled out of a prehistoric ocean and kick-started the evolution of salamanders, lizards, you, me and all other land vertebrates that have ever existed. The circuits of neurons that govern walking, many have long thought, emerged sometime after that, as creatures transitioned from swimming to limb-based locomotion. But a new report, published in the journal Cell on Thursday, overturns that notion, suggesting the template for walking originated in ancient fish millions of years before the first vertebrate ever ambled on dry land. The little skate, a fish closely related to sharks and rays, not only displays walking behavior on the seafloor, but uses neurons and genes that are nearly identical to the ones vertebrates use to walk on land, said Jeremy Dasen, an associate professor at the N.Y.U. School of Medicine’s Neuroscience Institute and senior author of the paper. READ: Researchers Find Fish That Walks the Way Land Vertebrates Do You can trace the heritage of little skates and land vertebrates back to a common ancestor that lived about 420 million years ago. This primitive fish gave rise to the vast majority of vertebrate species, including all fish with paired fins. Typically, these pectoral and pelvic fins — which correspond to forelimbs and hindlimbs in land vertebrates — are small and largely used for balance and steering. To really propel themselves, most fish wriggle their powerful tails. Little skates, which are commonly found along the East coast, don’t really wriggle. Instead, they flap and flutter enormous pectoral fins to swim in a style that resembles flying. On the seafloor, they scamper with their pelvic muscles, alternating left and right fins in a sequence that looks strikingly like walking. In land vertebrates, or tetrapods, walking is partly characterized by this left-right alternation as well as rhythms of extending and flexing. These patterns are governed by networks of neurons that work together to inhibit and activate complementary types of muscles. When excitatory neurons are firing to your left leg muscles, for example, inhibitory ones are firing to your right. Similarly, as some neurons tell your extension muscles to contract, others tell your flexion ones to relax. Dr. Dasen and his colleagues observed that little skates use both left-right alternation and extension-flexion in their fin muscles. To better understand the pathways behind these movements, they studied particular proteins that act like switches to turn certain genes on or off. Several gene switches found in tetrapods, which are important for the development and function of motor neurons that control tetrapods limbs, are active in those controlling the skates’ fins too, the scientists found. Furthermore, neurons that help govern left-right alternation and extension-flexion in walking tetrapods were also present in little skates. READ: Fish’s DNA May Explain How Fins Turned to Feet The neurons and genetic programming shared between little skates and land vertebrates suggest that the two groups evolved their walking behaviors from an ancient system, said Tetsuya Nakamura, an assistant professor of genetics at Rutgers University who did not participate in the research. “Our ancestral fish already had the cell types that later led to walking,” he said. This research underscores how “the similarities in the vertebrate body plan far outweigh the differences,” said Brooke Flammang, an assistant professor of biomechanics at the New Jersey Institute of Technology. Dr. Dasen agreed. “It kind of goes against the idea that evolution is a way of taking something simple and making it more sophisticated,” he said. Instead, it seems the common ancestor of most vertebrates already had a sophisticated blueprint in place. Over hundreds of millions of years, evolution tweaked this mold to generate vastly different life-forms — from fish that swim and scuttle to land vertebrates that walk, hop, slither and fly. ____ Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.