 A couple of hundred years ago, an explorer and naturalist named Alexander von Humboldt wanted to study electricity with eels in Cumana, an early settlement in what today is Venezuela. So local fishermen helped him obtain his slimy, charged subjects by leading horses into a shallow river basin full of them. The eels rubbed against the horses’ legs, zapping them with electric pulses. The horses tried to escape, but the fishermen didn’t let them until the eels ran out of juice. The story, told over and over again, seemed hard to believe until a few years ago, when Kenneth C. Catania, a biologist at Vanderbilt University, began a series of experiments that made this yarn seem scientifically plausible. But he wasn’t satisfied with his findings, seeking to get a sense of just how big a jolt an electric eel can deliver. So, for a study published Thursday in Current Biology, he allowed one to attack his own arm. “It was really a safe thing to do because it’s a small electric eel,” Dr. Catania said. In his earlier experiments, he found that an electric eel is like a battery. When confronted with prey or a threat, it transforms into a Taser-like shocking apparatus. To make catching its dinner easier (usually invertebrates like shrimp or crabs, and sometimes fish and rodents), it sends electric pulses through the water that, in succession, can paralyze its prey, or in just a few pulses, can cause it to flail around in the water, revealing its location through waves the eel senses with hairs on its body. When large, threatening animals like crocodiles, big cats, humans — or possibly horses — get too close for comfort, eels can wrap around the intruder or leap up to create a direct electric circuit. But what was that circuit like? In the latest study, Dr. Catania solved each variable of the circuit with traditional tools for measuring electricity. But working out the final variable — the resistance of a human arm — required a more creative, daring, approach. When the eel leapt out of a tank of water and rested its head on Dr. Catania’s arm, electricity flowed from the head, to his arm, to the water and back to the eel’s tail to complete the circuit. To measure this flow he stuck his hand in a plastic container with exposed metallic tape on the inside and outside connected to a wire. The same electricity that flowed through his arm would also flow through the wire — and that he could measure. When the eel leapt to his arm, he withdrew it immediately, comparing it to how you respond if you accidentally put your hand on a hot stove or touch an electric fence. “I was surprised that it caused my arm to involuntarily come out of the water,” Dr. Catania said. “The fact that there’s an animal out there that can remotely control your nervous system, I think is a pretty amazing thing.” Dr. Catania experienced about 10 shocks like this during the experiment, but with the data he obtained, he was able to use his numbers to extrapolate what kind of shocks eels of any size could deliver. A large eel, he said could paralyze you, causing you to fall down and potentially drown. “The total amount of energy would be considerably higher than a law enforcement Taser,” he said. While he was completing his research, a video went viral showing an eel attacking a fisherman in the Amazon in the same way. If it weren’t for the rope tied to the man’s waist, he might have drowned — which was most likely what happened to a few of the horses used as lures all those centuries ago. Through his work, Dr. Catania didn’t experience the same pain as the horses or the man in the video, and he wasn’t paralyzed. But he made sure to note that “it efficiently activated my pain receptors.”