 The birds of the Galápagos Islands are still playing a role in helping us understand evolution. When Darwin visited the islands, it was the wide variety of finch beaks that helped him understand how one species could evolve into many. Now the Galápagos cormorants, the only species of cormorant to have lost the ability to fly, have enabled scientists to pin down the genes that led to this species’ split from all other cormorants about two million years ago. They are genes that are present in birds, mammals and most animals, including even the worm often studied in laboratories: C. elegans. In fact, they are even present in some algae. Their ultimate effect varies, however. In humans and in the cormorants, the genes affect bone growth. But mutations in humans can cause some dreadful diseases; in the birds, they caused smaller wings, which were not effective for flight, and a weaker breastbone. Alejandro Burga, who analyzed the DNA of these and other cormorants with his colleagues, is a researcher in the lab of Leonid Kruglyak, the chairman of human genetics at U.C.L.A.’s medical school. He said he and Dr. Kruglyak were discussing how they might use the increasing power of modern genetics to investigate how new species develop. “We have very little idea how these things happen in nature,” he said. On a trip to the Galápagos, Dr. Kruglyak viewed cormorants as an ideal subject, partly because of their relatively recent evolution as a species and their obvious difference from all their kin. Other flightless birds like ostriches and kiwis do not have close relatives among flying birds, since their split from flying birds occurred 50 million years ago or more. But the Galápagos cormorants are closely related to neo-tropical cormorants and double-crested cormorants, both common birds. Patricia Parker, a behavioral ecologist at the University of Missouri, St. Louis, who studies bird diseases in the Galápagos, provided tissue samples for DNA of the flightless cormorants. “She had in her freezer over 200 samples of this bird,” Dr. Burga said. He and the other researchers on the team gathered samples from the living cormorants and began an exhaustive comparison of the different genomes. They narrowed their focus down to genes that affect bone growth. They found that a gene called Cux1 and some others were involved in the growth of cilia. These whip-like structures on the surface of cells can function in movement in single-celled animals. But in birds and humans and other complex organisms they work like antennas, and one of their jobs is to pick up biochemical signals for bone growth. The end result of mutations in Cux1 in humans can be terrible diseases, called ciliopathies. In the cormorants, however, the result seems to have been to prematurely stop bone growth in the wings, resulting in the loss of flight, but leaving the birds to thrive in the water and on land. The researchers tried inserting some of the mutations they found in the worm, C. elegans, and in mouse tissue. In the worm it caused a change in behavior related to the cilia, and in the mouse tissue it interfered with bone growth. That doesn’t prove they have the right genes, but it is further supporting evidence. Loss of flight was an evolutionary process that interested Darwin, but it seems he never saw the flightless cormorants. They are found around only two islands in the Galápagos, and he never mentions the birds in his account of his Galápagos visit in “The Voyage of the Beagle.” Without a knowledge of DNA and the tools of modern genomics, he could not have come up with the conclusions of the current study, published in Science on Thursday. But he certainly would have had something to say.