 Every year, thousands of little fish ride waves onto Southern California’s beaches at night to lay and fertilize eggs. High up in the sand, they squirm, wriggle and wrap around one another. As they dance beneath the moonlight, the beach transforms into a twinkling tapestry of spawning silver bodies. It’s known as the grunion run, and within a few hours, the show is over. This spectacular reproductive event occurs twice a month on nights after new and full moons, when tides are at their highest. The show, which plays out on West Coast beaches from Baja California, Mexico, up to San Francisco Bay, peaks between April and May, but can last from late February through August. With Tuesday’s full moon just past, now is the perfect time for a grunion run, if you happen to be in the area. “There’s a lot of chaos going on,” said Karen Lynn Martin, a biologist at Pepperdine University who specializes in grunion. “It’s pretty amazing.” Once the female gets to shore, she twists her body, tail first, into the sand about two inches down and lays up to 2,000 or 3,000 eggs. Then the male wraps his body around hers, spraying sperm-laden milt that fertilizes the eggs. When it’s all done, the adult fish catch a wave back out to sea, leaving their eggs behind to incubate under the sand until the next big tide rolls in. And timing of the tides is critical for the grunion. The eggs typically have nine or 10 days to incubate in the dry sand above the water line. When the next tide arrives, moving water rushes over the sand, signaling to the eggs that it is safe to hatch and head to sea. If for some reason the tide doesn’t get high enough to reach the eggs, they can actually pause their development for another 10 or so days until the next highest tide. Traditionally, people line up with buckets to collect grunion for food, bait or fun, but now only during open season. Fishing in April and May is prohibited because habitat loss and predators — birds, dolphins and other fish — take advantage of the feast and threaten spawning grunion. Grunion runs are tough to pin down. “They have survived this long in a very highly populated place by being not completely predictable,” Dr. Martin said. But you can try your best using an online schedule — or thinking like a grunion. A few nights after a new or full moon, head out to a quiet, sandy beach with the same kind of waves surfers like. And keep your voice down, or you will scare the grunion away. In San Pedro, Calif., the Cabrillo Marine Aquarium hosts grunion run viewings on the beach just out their back door. The next one was scheduled for Thursday night. With each day that passes after the full moon, the show typically starts later and winds down, so hurry — the runs have already begun. If you are not a night owl, a related species spawns during the day in the Gulf of California.