 This is how you put a video camera on a whale. Hop into an inflatable boat and head out to where they’re feeding. Stand in a pulpit with a 20-some-foot pole in your hands. Then watch and wait until you spot a whale. Plan your angle of approach with the driver of the boat. (Never approach directly from behind). Get close. Get closer. Get within 16 feet of this sea giant — which is more than twice the size of your boat if it’s a humpback — and as soon as it surfaces, tap the whale on its wet tire of a back with the pole. If you’re lucky, the detachable suction-cup on the end of the pole — which has a camera and sensors — will stick. Congratulations. “You’ve just put an instrument on the biggest animal that’s ever lived, and you got the most incredible view while doing it,” said Ari Friedlaender, a marine ecologist at Oregon State University who says he has become so proficient at tagging whales that he doesn’t even notice the boat rocking. “Afterwards there’s kind of an adrenaline rush.” Dr. Friedlaender is working with scientists at Stanford University and in Italy who are studying the biology of whales. The video footage and information on a whale’s movement provides a fresh glimpse of the fish whales eat and how they respond to the movements whales make while hunting . The scientists hope to uncover the secret relationships of whales and their prey, including the reasons for a whale’s tailored hunting strategies. The collaborators presented their ongoing project at the Society for Experimental Biology’s annual meeting on Wednesday and hope future work will contribute to the conservation of the animals and their habitat. The researchers obtain federal permits to do their work, and their technology was developed with concern for the whales’ health and welfare. “We have taken great care to develop tags that are noninvasive and do not change the whale’s behavior,” said Dr. Friedlaender, who has been tagging whales for research since 2000. Relative to the whale, the camera tags are tiny and generally go unnoticed. “Tagging a whale would be similar to if someone tapped you on your shoulder with their finger; you might hesitate for a moment or turn your head, but then continue on your business,” Jeremy Goldbogen, an ecologist at Stanford University who is leading the collaboration, wrote in an email. When tagging snoozing humpbacks in the Antarctic, Dr. Friedlaender said he turns off the boat’s engine and paddles up quietly, speaking only in whispers so he doesn’t wake the whale. But then the suction cup hits with a loud slap and — nothing happens, usually, much to his surprise. This doesn’t always work out. Onetime a whale woke up, got curious and played with the boat, swimming under it and rolling along it. The camera captured the encounter. “We were hoping we got a look of what it’s like for a whale to live in the Antarctic, but we got an hour of it looking at us,” he said. Dr. Friedlaender was lucky not to fall in, and never has, because safety — for the team and the whales — comes first. The main precaution is to keep the boat away from the whale’s tail or fluke because disturbed whales can be quite dangerous to encounter. If all things go well, the tag rides along for a few hours or a day before it falls off and emits a signal saying, “I’m here. Come get me.” Occasionally, a tag will disappear into the Pacific, like a 21st century message in a bottle, lost forever. But most of the time, when pinged, the researchers use a boat to follow the floating tag’s signal in the water, or a car on land — if some person has intercepted it and taken it home unknowingly. (There’s a phone number on the tag just in case.) When the scientists finally retrieve the tag, they upload its reports, and watch the ocean’s mysteries unfold before them. From data and videos retrieved from tags on humpback whales, members of Dr. Goldbogen’s lab are creating computer simulations of approaching whales to study the escape responses of fish. To mimic the approaching whale, they project a growing shape on a screen alongside a glass tank full of anchovies. The fish interpret the growing object as one moving toward them at different speeds that they must escape. The researchers hope studying the different responses to the simulations will reveal information like why humpbacks approach krill faster than anchovies even though anchovies are faster swimmers. “The development of these technologies allows us to see things in a way that we just didn’t have the opportunity to see before,” said Dr. Friedlaender.