 In honor of Halloween, let’s take a moment to appreciate fangs — and other sharp, pointed weapons animals use to capture, bite, hold, injure and paralyze their dinner guests and rivals. Fanged snakes can strike their prey to inject venom at speeds of about 7 miles per hour. Some mantis shrimp spear their victims with harpoon-like spines on the ends of their limbs up to 16 m.p.h. And a trap jaw ant can slam its spring-loaded mouth shut over its target at speeds of more than 130 m.p.h. There’s even a snail that shoots out a venomous tooth to stun fish. Many creatures — monkeys, bats, jellyfish and if vampires were real, those too — carry specialized weapon systems that allow them to survive by puncturing other animals. But how? To find out, Philip Anderson, a paleontologist and evolutionary biologist at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, started at the most basic level: physical mechanics. He knew the shape and function of teeth mattered for how well an animal could pierce another, but he wondered: “Are there ground rules that all of these animals had to follow in different ways to deal with these common challenges?” In a series of experiments published in the journal Interface Focus in April, he used a crossbow to shoot weighted arrows at a four-inch cube of ballistics gelatin — the wobbly stuff you see on television shows like “Mythbusters” or “CSI” to mimic human flesh. He found that kinetic energy — a combination of mass and speed — was the best predictor of how efficiently an arrow penetrated the gel. In other words, the smaller the arrow, the faster he had to shoot it. He concluded that in nature, perhaps smaller animals developed bodies that allow them to strike quicker than larger animals, to make up for the size of their penetrating apparatus — whether it was a claw, a fang or a harpoon-like cell stored in a tentacle. In many animals, he said, this theory plays out. You can see just how the arrow punctures the gel in this backlit video shot at 20,000 frames per second. The key to cracking into it is the same for breaking anything, really: Just cram a bunch of energy into a small point. This is why sharp, pointed objects cut better than blunt ones — and why the arrows with more energy were better at breaking the gel. In this video, the arrow hits around 27 m.p.h. Its impact produces stress waves that, without enough energy, would travel to the edges of the cube and allow the elastic material to distort, bulge and reject the arrow. But the arrow’s impact allows it to embed itself in the gel before the stress waves reach the sides. At this point, Dr. Anderson’s experiments better illustrate a general weapon than an actual animal part. The shape and function of an animal’s fangs, claws or tentacles as well as the composition of its target also influence how it penetrates. Consider fangs. “The form of all these teeth really depends on what the animal wants to do,” said Peter Lucas, an anthropologist who specializes in dental function and morphology who is now at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama. Some male primates, for example, use long canine teeth that resemble fangs to intimidate and fight other males. And because their purpose is to cause the most damage, they are sharp on the tip and back. But a vampire bat, in contrast, wants to sustain its victim for future snacks, so it causes little damage. Its pointy incisors, or front teeth (not necessarily their side fangs as you see in the humanlike vampire), break the skin just enough to damage blood vessels that ooze out blood that they can then lick up, not suck. To do any of these things, the whole body must adapt: fangy male primates, for example, can open their mouths wider than females can; and the trap jaw ant actually deforms its whole head to get enough force to snap down as it does. So what about humanoid vampires? It’s not about force, but delicacy. You wouldn’t want to have to get a new victim every time. “If you’re going to copy a vampire bat, you actually don’t want to make a deep gouging mark in the neck,” Dr. Lucas said. “I’m not sure pointed teeth, the kind that appear in Halloween costumes, would be the perfect thing to use.”