 Let’s get the temptation to make bad jokes out of the way first. This story is about manakins, not mannequins. It is about mating acrobatics by Panamanian birds, not the mannequin challenge. If you are one of the three people in the world who have not heard about the mannequin challenge, that is terrific. You can concentrate without distraction on the beauty and complexity of bird behavior. And the way male manakins leap around and snap their wings to attract the attention of females is truly challenging. They bring their wings together over their backs so they meet with an audible snap. A male manakin can do this 50 to 60 times a second. A series of wing snaps is called a roll snap. They also do this wing snap when they are jumping from sapling to sapling around a neat portion of forest floor that scientists call a court. That is a jump snap. And they do a kind of half-flip jump to the ground from a sapling. Barney A. Schlinger, a biologist at the University of California, Los Angeles, who studies manakins and how brain wiring relates to behavior, said, “At the last second they flip their wings and land perfectly. They look like the best gymnasts you’ve ever seen.” Dr. Schlinger and his colleague Ioana Chiver, a researcher at U.C.L.A., wanted to know whether females could do these acrobatics, because they normally do not. Eventually, they would like to find exactly what it in the brain and muscles is responsible for these complicated actions. But for the research they reported in the journal Animal Behaviour, Dr. Chiver and Dr. Schlinger just tried to see if females that received testosterone would perform the male mating wing snaps, twists and jumps. For the experiment they caught and tested young manakins, male and female, and took them to the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama. Even determining their sex was no small task, requiring analysis of a small bit of blood. Then they gave females and young males testosterone, because a surge in testosterone, a male hormone, initiates the mating behavior in adult males. And they caught the behavior on video. “Recording them was the fun part,” Dr. Chiver said. She spent the better part of two years doing the capturing and testing and preparation. So watching the performances was a reward. “The males just dance the whole day,” she said. And they eat only papaya and other fruit. “It’s unbelievable what a little fruit can do for you.” In the experiment, the juvenile males did all the acrobatics that the adult males did. They also engaged in another typical male behavior. They cleaned their territory, aggressively removing stray leaves and other debris from their mating court, a patch of ground in the middle of several saplings. The females also proved they could do wing snaps and roll snaps. “That was a big surprise,” Dr. Chiver said. The researchers had expected that the acrobatics would be hard wired in the males, but not the females. So the females had the muscular ability and the brain wiring to allow them to perform in a similar way as the males, though not quite as fast. They did not, however, perform the more complicated jumps combined with wing snaps. And the females did not patrol the court to keep it free of foreign objects. Now that the researchers know that females performed some of the typically male mating moves when they were given testosterone, the question is why they did not do the others. Is the reason a difference in brain wiring that occurs in development? Is it the genes that make males male? Is there some way that the females do not receive the same message from testosterone that the males do? More research is on the way. For now, as far as anyone knows, certain twisting leaps and obsessive housekeeping are strictly for the males.