 In 1974, a farmer was digging a well in the countryside outside of Xi’an, the ancient imperial capital of China, when he started pulling up bricks, arrowheads and pieces of terra cotta. It turns out there was an entire army underneath his field — some 7,000 terra cotta warriors, complete with horses and weapons, buried 2,300 years ago to protect the tomb of Qin Shi Huang, the first emperor of China. Legend has it that 700,000 workers took 38 years to build an entire underground city with rivers of mercury, palaces and walls. I was thinking of that farmer as I walked through the streets of what was once Pompeii, in Italy, last month. The city and neighboring Herculaneum were buried in some 20 feet of ash in August of 79 A.D. when nearby Mount Vesuvius erupted, then forgotten and then rediscovered the same way Qin’s army was, starting in 1738. So I was strolling through former fast-food restaurants, brothels and palaces, trying to imagine the good life of our ancestors, under a burning sun and the looming volcano. Back home the world was celebrating the discovery of an Earth-mass planet circling the very nearby star Proxima Centauri, a mere 4.2 light years from here, and speculating on the chances of traveling there or if anything lives or can live on that mysterious orb. I have no doubt that sometime in the next century human artifacts will visit Proxima b, as it is known, to check out some of those fantasies. But it struck me that in our search for mystery and discovery and meaning we always look up and out there. At the same time we hardly know anything about what is going on, or what went on, under our own feet. What have we already known, or built, and forgotten? We bury history, and history buries us. We walk around on a carapace of ignorance and forgetfulness. A few hundred miles north of Pompeii, another example, perhaps courtesy of global climate change, emerged from a melting snowbank in the Tyrolean Alps. That is Ötzi, a.k.a. the Iceman, named for a nearby town, who now sleeps in plain refrigerated view in the South Tyrol Museum of Archaeology in Bolzano, Italy, an emissary from 3300 B.C., surrounded by displays of his clothes, tools and other artifacts, including the fire-starting kit he was carrying, mushrooms and the results of medical and genetic tests. Judging by a wax reconstruction, he would look perfectly at home in Brooklyn or some other locale where eccentric clothing and ironic beards are fashionable. He is believed to have been killed by an arrow to the shoulder and a blow to the head. We know his blood type — O positive, the same as mine — and that he was lactose intolerant. But nobody knows why he was killed or who he really was. I found myself wondering if, when they are finally ever done with him, they would give him a decent burial. And I can’t help wondering if there are more out there like him, waiting to be uncovered, collected and preserved by the ice the way the dry valleys in Antarctica collect meteorites from Mars. What else lies beneath our feet? In Finland, workers are boring a tunnel 1,600 feet down into the granite bedrock of Scandinavia to store nuclear waste. A joke going around the project, known as Onkalo, was that the team would find canisters left by somebody else. The caves of Europe are haunted by the prehistoric dreams and visions of our own ancestors. But the deepest and most mysterious storehouse of all might be our minds. On a plateau above Bolzano, a walking trail threads through Tyrolean villages with the chalky white teeth of the Dolomites in the distance. A section of the path is named after Sigmund Freud, who used to summer in these parts. Scattered along it are benches, long enough to lie on and spin out your dreams, inscribed with quotations from the presumed master of the subconscious. One of them caught my eye: “The interpretation of dreams is the via regia to a knowledge of the unconscious in the psychic life.” Modern science, not to mention the feminist movement, has demolished much of Freud’s work and such notions as penis envy. But I doubt anyone would disagree with what I take to be the main message of all of this psychic plumbing: What we don’t know about ourselves can come back and hurt us. I plodded along wondering what dreams might rumble the long sleep of Ötzi and Qin, those bookends of prehistory. As William Faulkner once wrote, “The past is not dead. It isn’t even past.” And we keep making more of it, layering it deeper. A couple days after I was in Pompeii, an earthquake in central Italy killed some 300 people and buried several small villages in rubble. Among them was a town called Amatrice, a summer refuge for Rome restaurant workers, of which the mayor said, “Half the town is gone.” Nature keeps shrugging, and whatever is not buried will disappear under the waves. My colleague Justin Gillis reported recently that the rise in ocean levels predicted by climate change scientists is already causing flooding. The storm is coming, to what end only the poets and musicians can imagine. All we know about astronomy and geology tells us that, in a billion years or so as the sun brightens and the oceans evaporate, life on Earth will be extinct and forgotten. Neither Shakespeare nor the Sistine Chapel will survive, except perhaps as legends or the bad dreams of whatever robots might inhabit the worlds like Proxima b. I came home to find the remains of Hurricane Hermine bearing down on New York. Expecting catastrophic tides and flooding, the mayor had closed all the beaches. But one of the local tabloids had a photo of a surfer being bounced far above a wave. Just because we have to die doesn’t mean we can’t party.