 When I first heard that Bob Dylan had won the Nobel Prize in Literature, I was immediately jealous of the scientists who had won this year. Not because they were now rich and had gained scientific immortality, but because they would get to meet the legendary troubadour himself at the festivities in Stockholm. Well, it’s now a definite “maybe.”  After two weeks of radio silence that infuriated the Swedish Academy, on Friday Mr. Dylan told an interviewer for The Telegraph that he would show up for the award ceremonies in Stockholm on Dec. 10 “If I can.” The party, of course, would’ve gone on anyway, but it wouldn’t have been the same without him. As an old (emphasis on old) Dylan fan, I was knocked off my chair by the news he had won the literature prize — a possibility that had been bruited hopefully about for years, but who knew? Everything that has happened and not happened since has cemented in my mind the first thought I had that day: The Nobel Prize needs Bob Dylan more than Bob Dylan needs the Nobel Prize. The Swedish Academy, at least its literature committee, made a bold move when it named Mr. Dylan as its laureate, unleashing a torrent of discussion about the nature and limits of literature. I wish the committees that award the Nobel Prizes for science would be so adventurous. The Nobel Prize is the most honored and prestigious award in the world, but lately I fear it has seemed more and more hidebound, and in danger of being strangled by its own rules. There are three such prizes: physiology or medicine, physics and chemistry (four if economics is a science), awarded to “those who, during the preceding year, shall have conferred the greatest benefit on mankind,” as it says in Alfred Nobel’s will. To start with, there is the rule, which is not in the will, that no more than three people can share a prize. That anchors the Nobels in a bygone romantic era of the myth of the lone genius. Modern science, however, is an internet blur of competition and collaboration. That means that no matter how well the Nobel committees do their homework, somebody is often left out in a kind of intellectual triage. At least six theorists, for example, had the idea of the Higgs boson, which explains how elementary particles get mass, back in 1964, but they couldn’t all win the physics prize when the particle was finally discovered. Peter Higgs and François Englert received the prize in 2013, two years after Dr. Englert’s partner, Robert Brout, had died. The three others, Tom Kibble, Carl Hagen and Gerald Guralnik, were not named. It took some 5,000 physicists working together in two teams to discover the vaunted particle at CERN in 2012. So far there has been no prize for that, even though a little noticed clause in the Nobel rules does allow the prize to go to an institution or association. No science prize ever has. More than 1,000 physicists and astronomers were part of the LIGO collaboration that announced the discovery of gravitational waves — space-time ripples predicted by Einstein a century ago — in February this year, a Nobel-Prize-worthy event if there ever was one. Only three of those scientists can win a Nobel, alas. It couldn’t happen this year because the discovery was announced after the Jan. 31 deadline for Nobel nominations. Other award organizations were more fleet of foot, racing to bask in the glow of another Einstein achievement. This summer the originators of LIGO, Rai Weiss of M.I.T. and Ron Drever and Kip Thorne of the California Institute of Technology, shared the Shaw Prize in Astronomy, the Kavli Prize for Astrophysics and the Gruber Cosmology Prize — though the deadline for nominations for those had also passed before the discovery was announced — as well as a third of a Special Breakthrough Prize for Fundamental Physics. The prizes for the three were collectively worth $3.7 million, including $1 million for the Breakthrough Prize. That prize, however, also recognized the foot soldiers of science by dividing another $2 million among the other 1,012 physicists on the LIGO project. It doesn’t help, moreover, that the Nobels hew to a moss-encrusted division of scholarly pursuit that is almost medieval in its outlook: The only categories are physics, chemistry or medicine. Economics was added in 1968. The most exciting progress these days is happening in the interstices between those antiquated domains, in astrobiology or neurogenetics or geochemistry, and that is where the smart research grants are going, but not the Nobels. Thus the astronomer Edwin Hubble never received a Nobel for discovering the expanding universe. Claude Shannon never received one for inventing information theory. E.O. Wilson will never get a prize for ants or sociobiology. Nor will Jane Goodall. Or Sarah Blaffer Hrdy or Rachel Carson. Which brings me to the most glaring and embarrassing Nobel Prize failure of all — the dismal representation of women. The annals of science past and present are dotted with the names of women who made fundamental discoveries, for which men wound up getting the prize: Rosalind Franklin, whose X-ray crystallography data pointed James Watson and Francis Crick to the double helix of DNA; Lise Meitner, who first recognized the phenomenon of nuclear fission, but was left off the prize Otto Hahn received for it; Jocelyn Bell Burnell, who as a graduate student under Antony Hewish discovered pulsars, for which Dr. Hewish won a Nobel; Chien-Shiung Wu, a particle physicist at Columbia whose experiment showed that certain forces of nature were left-handed, confirming a theory for which Tsung-Dao Lee and Chen Ning Yang won a Nobel Prize. In 2009, a group of scientists and engineers wrote an open letter to the Nobel Foundation asking that it create a prize for global environment and public health, and expand the medicine prize across the life sciences to include fields like ecology, psychology and neuroscience. In a speech opening the ceremonies that year, Marcus Storch, the chairman of the Nobel Foundation, swatted away those concerns, saying among other things, “The prize-awarding institutions apparently still share Nobel’s firm opinion that discoveries and inventions, as well as ‘outstanding’ literary works, are made by creative individuals, not by institutions.” That’s their opinion, but in a lifetime of reporting such events I have rarely found a significant discovery or theory that didn’t have predecessors or hints or influences and roots that could be traced back almost as far as anyone wanted to go. Even Einstein, the prototypical loner, was bulwarked by a vast correspondence of arguing and discussion. It’s hard to imagine anyone who embodies all of the contradictions of this situation better than Bob Dylan — “the original vagabond,” as Joan Baez called him — a singular voice who exploded on the scene dragging behind and propelled forward by a phantasmagorical ocean of allusions, references, appropriations, traditions, folklore and culture as wide, deep and mysterious as history itself. So I am hoping that Mr. Dylan does show up for the Nobel ceremony on Dec. 10. It could be a real jingle jangle morning in Stockholm.