 Q. Wouldn’t having an enema prior to a colonoscopy virtually wipe out one’s internal microbiome? A. Preparing for a colonoscopy requires clearing the bowel with fasting, a laxative drink and, in some cases, an enema. While such preparation can alter the microbiome, the rich array of microbes that are present in the gut, research suggests that the microbiome bounces back in about two to four weeks. “It does significantly shift the community for a short period of time, but as far as we know doesn’t have any long-term consequences,” said Dr. Ilseung Cho, a gastroenterologist and assistant professor of medicine at NYU Langone Medical Center. Even an enema won’t clear out all the bacteria from the colon, said Dr. Ari Grinspan, a gastroenterologist at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. People’s microbiomes tend to be very stable after the age of about 3. “If you go to Thailand and eat interesting food, or get a bug of some kind, your microbiome will change, but in most cases, it will go back to its normal state afterwards,” Dr. Grinspan said. One 2014 study of 23 people found that the volunteers’ microbiomes bounced back faster if they drank two one-liter doses of the bowel prep drink typically used before a colonoscopy — one in the evening and one the following morning, rather than the full two liters on the morning of the procedure. “So, it’s actually better for your gut microbiome and better for bowel prep to do two separate doses,” said Gail Cresci, a gastroenterology researcher with the Cleveland Clinic who specializes in the gut microbiome. But your bowel preparation schedule will depend on what your doctor recommends. Dr. Martin Blaser, who directs the Human Microbiome Program at NYU Langone, said he doesn’t think scientists understand the microbiome well enough to conclude that it rebounds completely after a procedure like a colonoscopy or a medication like an antibiotic. The studies may be missing subtler changes, he said. “Do we ever bounce 100 percent back, or are we bouncing 95 percent back or 98 percent back?” Dr. Blaser asked. That difference may some day be shown to make a difference, he said. Indeed, scientists are only beginning to understand how the microbiome works, how and why it changes and its overall impact on health.