 WASHINGTON — Republican governors pleaded with their fellow Republicans in Congress on Thursday to give states more control over both their Medicaid programs and their individual health insurance markets as lawmakers work with President-elect Donald J. Trump to replace the Affordable Care Act. In town for Mr. Trump’s inauguration, nine governors — some who had expanded Medicaid under the law and some who had refused — presented a united message: The Obama administration was too rigid in prescribing standards for Medicaid and private insurance coverage, and states need more power to set their own policies. Many had already sent letters to Republican lawmakers urging them not to repeal the law before approving a replacement plan, and in comments after Thursday’s session they focused on the details of what that replacement plan should be. Given greater flexibility to set their own policies, several governors said, they would like to trim the number of people in Medicaid and the array of benefits offered in both the public program and private plans sold in the markets. Yet at the same time, some, including John R. Kasich of Ohio and Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas, are lobbying to keep the generous federal financing provided by the law for expanding Medicaid. Mr. Hutchinson and Mr. Kasich have indicated they would like to reduce their Medicaid expansion populations while still having the federal government pay at least 90 percent of the cost of covering those who remain in the program. Medicaid is the nation’s largest government health insurance program, serving 22 percent of the population — more than 70 million people — at a cost of more than $500 billion a year. Before the Affordable Care Act, Medicaid recipients were largely children, parents, pregnant women and the elderly and disabled. The law sought to change that by requiring every state to expand Medicaid to cover anyone with income up to 138 percent of the poverty level, or about $16,500 for a single adult. But the Supreme Court ruled that states could opt out of the provision, and many Republican-led states did so. Still, 16 of the 31 states that expanded Medicaid under the law have Republican governors who now must decide whether to fight to preserve the size and scope of their programs in the Trump era. The law offered a major financial enticement to lure states into expanding Medicaid: The federal government paid the entire cost for the first three years. Although states are beginning to pay a small portion of expansion costs this year, they are never required to pay more than 10 percent under the terms of the Affordable Care Act. Some Republican governors have also expressed tentative support for Mr. Trump’s proposal to change federal spending on Medicaid from an open-ended entitlement to a fixed annual amount, or block grant, for each state. Critics say block grants could result in states cutting people from the Medicaid rolls or reducing the services they get. “The difference between a good block grant and a dangerous block grant is in the detail,” Mr. Kasich wrote to congressional leaders recently. Gov. Rick Scott of Florida told reporters outside the meeting room on Capitol Hill that he wanted the Trump administration to give him a set amount for each Medicaid beneficiary, but that the amounts should differ depending on the beneficiary’s health needs. “Individuals with different problems, there are different costs involved,” he said. Referring to the Department of Health and Human Services, Mr. Scott added, “It was frustrating to me under Obamacare, where the H.H.S. didn’t appear to have any interest in working with me. They said, ‘You should do this and do it all 100 percent on my terms.’” Mr. Hutchinson said he was “very, very pleased” with the meeting with senators, which also included Representative Greg Walden, Republican of Oregon and the chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which will play a large role in writing legislation to replace the Affordable Care Act. Governors held a separate meeting with Republican members of Mr. Walden’s committee. “Whenever you see senators and Chairman Walden taking notes on what governors are saying, that’s a significant day for the principle of federalism,” Mr. Hutchinson said. In addition to Mr. Hutchinson, Mr. Kasich and Mr. Scott, the governors of Idaho, Iowa, Michigan, South Dakota, Texas and Utah attended the meeting. In letters before the meeting, the governors also warned Congress not to do anything that would disrupt coverage for people who have gained it under the health law. “We support a single repeal-and-replace package, but are concerned that a strategy to repeal now then later replace the A.C.A. could have serious consequences,” Mr. Kasich wrote. He added that such consequences could include destabilizing the insurance markets and reversing recent coverage gains.