 Q. Can I have a conversation with Google Assistant, or will there be an update in the future that will let me have one? A. Google Assistant, the company’s voice-based helper software that is similar to Amazon’s Alexa, Apple’s Siri and Microsoft’s Cortana software, can already hold basic two-way conversations based on spoken or typed questions and commands. However, more intricate interaction with all these virtual assistant apps is coming as companies expand their research into the scientific areas of artificial intelligence, machine learning and natural language processing. (For those with privacy concerns, keep in mind that most virtual assistant software is designed to collect personal data.) The Google Assistant software is available as an app for Android and iOS devices, built into Google Home and other speakers, Android-based wearables, cars, televisions, smart-home appliances and other gear. If you are not sure how to talk to the program, the Google Assistant site has a lengthy list of the questions, commands and topics that you can use with the software, complete with suggestions on how to phrase your requests. You can, for example, tell Google Assistant to remember where you parked your car and then ask the software to remind you of the location later. For those with Google Home speakers, the company recently released a series of Routines, which run through a set of regular daily tasks like adjusting the thermostat and lights before reporting the traffic and weather as you wake up. When you ask, Google Assistant will start a conversation with third-party chatbot personalities like the Hogwarts Sorting Hat or Bobo the Panda. The Cyber Argument bot on the site can even pit a Google Home speaker against a nearby Amazon Alexa-powered device; for the curious, video clips of chatbots arguing are available, as is an online publication called Chatbots Magazine. But beyond novelty applications, Google (and the other companies) are pushing to develop conversational user interfaces for their products to make them more useful and able to handle complex sets of tasks. An online guide for Google Assistant developers can give you an idea of how apps are designed to work with the software, and you will most likely see software updates to Google Assistant as the software becomes more advanced. Amazon, Apple and Microsoft have similar developer programs for their own virtual assistants. To help inspire its developers even more, Amazon last year created the Alexa Prize, a contest to advance conversational artificial intelligence with a financial reward to the research team that creates the best “socialbot” that can “can converse coherently and engagingly with humans on a range of current events and popular topics such as entertainment, sports, politics, technology and fashion.”