 There he is, Ajit Pai, the head of the Federal Communications Commission. He’s making his argument for repealing net neutrality rules by donning a Santa Claus suit, wielding a fidget spinner and a toy gun, wearing eclipse glasses, being silly. In a video released on Wednesday by the conservative website the Daily Caller, Mr. Pai takes a two-minute tour through five years of internet bait. There are references to “Star Wars” and to “Game of Thrones.” There are puppies (though no unicorns), Instagrammed food, a selfie stick and the Harlem Shake, which, by the way, went viral back in February 2013. And there, anchoring the entire video, is Mr. Pai, just before the Federal Communications Commission voted on the issue on Thursday. In a 3-2 vote along party lines, Mr. Pai got his wish. The video, however, is getting less love online than he might have expected. The footage informs consumers, to a backing track with “awwws” and folksy whistling, that they can still “post photos of cute animals,” “stay part of your fave fandom” and “ruin memes” in a post-net neutrality America. Mr. Pai, a career government bureaucrat and former lawyer for Verizon, has publicly chastised his critics before, including celebrities like Cher, Alyssa Milano and Mark Ruffalo. But the video generated some broader disdain. It also prompted a threat of legal action from Harry Bauer Rodrigues, the music producer behind “Harlem Shake” who goes by Baauer, over unauthorized use of the music. Mad Decent, the record label that worked with Baauer on “Harlem Shake,” said in a statement about the video that neither the label nor the artist “approved this use nor do we approve of the message contained therein. We have issued a takedown will pursue further legal action if it is not removed.” An editorial posted by The Daily Caller on Friday complained of political censorship, writing that YouTube temporarily removed the video on Friday morning following a copyright claim over “Harlem Shake.” The Daily Caller spent “seven crucial hours and the full force of our news site” to convince YouTube and Google, the video-hosting platform’s parent company, to reinstate the video, wrote Neil Patel, publisher of the website. The video was eventually reinstated on YouTube. “An average citizen showcasing a political viewpoint Google and the left disagreed with would almost certainly have had a far more difficult — and fruitless — time fighting back,” he wrote. In a statement, YouTube said that, far from an “act of arbitrary political censorship,” its handling of the video “was simply the implementation of well-established notice and takedown processes required by the Digital Millennium Copyright Act.” “YouTube does not determine who owns the rights to what content,” the company said. “That is determined by the courts.”