 Laurent Potdevin, the chief executive of Lululemon Athletica, the company famous for its leggings and role in the creation of the athleisure trend, resigned because of behavior that fell short of the athletic apparel maker’s standards of conduct, the company said on Monday. Mr. Potdevin, who was president of Toms Shoes and chief executive of Burton Snowboards before joining Lululemon in early 2014, also stepped down from the board. The company, based in Vancouver, British Columbia, has begun looking for his replacement. The company said Mr. Potdevin, 50, had failed to “exemplify the highest levels of integrity and respect for one another,” but declined to give specific examples. Glenn Murphy, the company’s executive chairman, thanked Mr. Potdevin for “his work strengthening the company and positioning it for the future.” Mr. Murphy, a former chief executive and chairman of Gap, will take on extra duties. “Culture is at the core of Lululemon, and it is the responsibility of leaders to set the right tone in our organization,” he said in a statement. After The New York Times and other news outlets published allegations of sexual harassment and assault against the movie mogul Harvey Weinstein, other claims of workplace misconduct have cost executives in fashion, media, politics and other industries their jobs. Lululemon declined to say whether sexual misconduct was behind Mr. Potdevin’s resignation. In a separation agreement dated Friday and filed with regulators, Lululemon said it would give Mr. Potdevin an upfront cash payment of $3.35 million, followed by $1.65 million spread over 18 months. Lululemon stock, which is up 16.5 percent year over year, was down 3 percent in after-hours trading on Monday. The company built its name on the ability to recognize and serve consumers whose interest in well-being defined their aesthetic. By combining the hippy-esque styling of most yoga clothes with the performance specifications of sports brands such as Nike and Adidas, the company and its founder, Dennis J. Wilson, created workout clothes that could be worn in everyday life to telegraph a value system and lifestyle. The expensive fitness finery spawned a cult following and paved the way for brands like Tory Sport and Gap’s Athleta label. But in 2013, the company recalled 17 percent of its black yoga pants after complaints that the fabric was too sheer. Some of the women who went to Lululemon stores to return the thinning bottoms were asked by employees to put on the pants and then bend over. Mr. Wilson, known as Chip, told a Bloomberg TV reporter months later that “some women’s bodies don’t work for the pants.” By the end of the year, Mr. Wilson had stepped down from his post as chairman and Mr. Potdevin had agreed to replace Christine M. Day as the chief executive.