 Remember when you taught your parents how to use email? These days, it may be your second grader teaching you the latest mobile app — while you wonder if it’s one they should even use. Today’s parents are savvier with mobile technology than those a generation ago, but even so-called “digital native” parents struggle to keep up with thousands of new apps aimed at kids. How do you know if an app is appropriate for children, or even educational? “There really does need to be some sort of Good Housekeeping seal of approval to say this is good app, but we don’t have that yet,” said Ellen Wartella, the director of the Center on Media and Human Development at Northwestern University in Chicago. “The rule of thumb for all technology is that it’s not the technology per se that is problematic,” Dr. Wartella said. “It’s what the content is and how the child uses it.” After all, few parents would worry about a child obsessed with books — unless they’re pulling Stephen King’s “It” or a steamy romance off-the-shelf. Educators picking out apps for the classroom often look for five key pillars of a good educational app. Briefly, a good educational app actively engages the child; doesn’t have distractions that interrupt the learning experience (that includes ads); bridges new learning to existing knowledge; has clearly defined, measurable learning objectives that build on existing skills; and includes social interactivity or feedback. Few parents have the time to assess every app their child wants to download on these criteria, but they can follow some general guidelines. After skimming an app’s ratings and searching for reviews and forum discussions, consider these tips. As always, consider the source. Sometimes that’s easy if the name is familiar, said David Hill, chair of American Academy of Pediatrics Council on Communications and Media. “Some of the very best educational technology comes from PBS Kids, and this should surprise no one,” Dr. Hill said. It was PBS that pioneered the whole concept of educational media with the research-backed benefits of Sesame Street. But a name isn’t everything — not all Disney and Nickelodeon apps are educational — and sticking only with familiar brands may leave out exciting up-and-comers. So parents can also look at the company’s values and whether educators were involved in the app’s development. “If an app is created in conjunction with educators, that’s a really good sign,” said Christine Elgersma, senior editor of parent education at Common Sense Media, a nonprofit that reviews apps, films, TV shows, video games and related media for kids. “With educators, you have a much better chance of having and achieving learning objectives.” And if you find an app you and your child really like, see if the developer has others. Tinybop, for example, has a suite of excellent educational apps available individually or in discounted packages. Common Sense Media is one of parents’ best resources for investigating apps. Ms. Elgersma described some of the criteria they consider: “First, is it fun? Is a kid actually going to want to use this particular app? Is it empowering for the kid in some way? Is it more of an active or passive experience? Can they transfer learning to real life in some way? Is it adaptive? If a kid is using it and they get some answers wrong, does the app adapt to that experience?” Apps intended to be educational should have clearly stated evidence-based learning objectives. “If a developer makes a big claim about what kids can learn, but there’s no research to back it up and there are no educators involved in the creation of the app, that’s a red flag,” Ms. Elgersma said. Steer clear of apps claiming to teach language to babies and toddlers, for example. Research clearly shows that kids learn language primarily from caregivers during social interactions, and screens can’t trump real, human conversations. Children’s Technology Review, or Ctrex, is another resource. “Not only do they provide reviews from someone with a pedagogical background, but they provide videos of the app, how educational and entertaining it might be and some of the bugs in it,” said Dr. Jessica Taylor Piotrowski, director of the Center for Research on Children, Adolescents and the Media at the University of Amsterdam in the Netherlands. “You can see everything from the price point to the recommended ages to key features it has.” Ctrex is a paid subscription but may be worth it for parents sifting through dozens of new apps each year. Teachers and fellow parents are experts too, and are likely willing to offer their own suggestions. In my network, parents recommended Raz-Kids, Dragonbox, Starfall, Bedtime Math, IXL apps, Scribblenauts, Endless Alphabet, Spelling City, TumbleBooks, Epic!, and ABC Mouse. Some free apps really are no-strings-attached, such as those from PBS. More often, the money to develop and maintain a free app comes from advertising or in-app purchases. Poptropica is a fun “educational-ish” app, Dr. Hill said, but it’s supported by ads and can seem like “one long advertisement for Kellogg brand cereals,” he said. “It’s fun. It’s interesting. But you may not want that advertising with it,” he said. Look for whether the app offers extras to buy in the app and how easy it is to do. Most phones let parents change the settings to require a password for purchases, so kids don’t go crazy with your credit card. Some developers offer “freemium” apps, which let users download a “lite” version of an app to try it out before paying for the full-featured version. Some apps may ask a child’s name or age to personalize it or ensure the user is old enough, but parents should be wary of apps asking for too much information. Apps designed for children underage 13 should be compliant with the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Rule, known as Coppa, Ms. Elgersma said. “If it says they’re Coppa-compliant in the app description, it means they’re paying attention and trying to fall within those guidelines,” she said. “If it says it for people over 13, it’s not Coppa-compliant and they can collect any data they want.” But there’s a double-edged sword: In social apps, complete anonymity can open the door to bullying if kids don’t feel accountable for their words. Ms. Elgersma recommends checking to be sure kids can easily report abuse in social apps. Roblox, for example, has multiple safeguards for kids, she said. No one knows your child better than you, so trust your gut. “It comes down to watching your child play and seeing if it’s meeting their needs,” including having fun, Dr. Piotrowski said. “Sometimes we unintentionally think that if it is enjoyable, they’re not learning, but the more they enjoy it, the more they engage with it, the more sustained play we have and the greater chance we have for learning,” she said. That includes games not explicitly designed as educational. Minecraft involves problem-solving and spatial skills. Pokémon Go requires basic math, introduces players to local landmarks and history and emphasizes different habitats of different creatures — even imaginary ones. (Both of those have in-app purchases.) Monument Valley and The Room are fun puzzle apps that engage spatial and critical thinking skills. Parents rarely feel guilty if their child spends 20 minutes having fun on the playground, and they shouldn’t feel guilty about 20 minutes of fun on an app either, Dr. Piotrowski said. Some apps aim for deep learning; others aim for play. “When an app is well-designed, with a clear goal to support a skill and clear target audience, and really relies on these principles of being active, engaged, meaningful and socially interactive, they work, they absolutely work,” Dr. Piotrowski said. “But some of these apps are playful experiences that enable creativity and problem-solving, and they can be just as valuable.” Kids don’t need an app with flashcards or work sheets. Good apps should “bring to life an experience that’s impossible to create off screen,” Ms. Elgersma said. “That’s the kind of app that can be really exciting for kids and provide really unique learning opportunities.” Examples include the Tinybop apps, such as The Earth, Robot Factory, Space, Skyscrapers and The Human Body. “Kids can explore those topics in a way that a book doesn’t let them,” she said. “They can go inside the human body and explore how body parts work.” Another reading and literacy app, Homer, includes a safe social component which allows kids to send their creations and progress to approved family members and educators. “That offers them a way to interact and take some ownership and agency around what they’re learning,” Ms. Elgersma said. How much time on mobile devices is too much? There are no hard and fast rules, Dr. Wartella said. “It’s a question of balance over the course of the day,” she said. She recommends having technology-free zones, such as mealtimes and bedtime, and notes that parents’ use of technology should model what’s appropriate for kids. The American Academy of Pediatrics offers a personalized family media use planning tool at Healthychildren.org, Dr. Hill said, but the principle is pretty simple: “Media use needs to fit in around all the other things that are important for childhood wellness,” he said, including eating, sleeping, physical activity, homework, reading and social interactions. Some early evidence suggests two people using a tablet together might offer more benefits than solo use, Dr. Wartella said, but not much research exists on co-use yet. Still, using it together means parents can ensure they are comfortable with the app, and they can discuss it with their child as they might discuss a book. “A parent can really be a bridge to transfer any learning an app has to the real world so it’s not isolated to a screen when that tablet cover is closed,” Ms. Elgersma said. “Co-use and co-play — that is one of the most powerful ways that apps can be educational.”