 A lawsuit seeking class-action status was filed on Wednesday against Harvey Weinstein, Miramax, the Weinstein Company and members of its board, claiming that these entities worked to “perpetuate and conceal Weinstein’s widespread sexual harassment and assault,” a cover-up that amounts to civil racketeering. In a joint statement, the six plaintiffs said, “We are but six women representing hundreds” who have been harassed or assaulted by Mr. Weinstein. The suit names several former and current Weinstein Company board members, including Bob Weinstein, Harvey’s brother who heads The Weinstein Company; James Dolan, owner of the New York Knicks; Marc Lasry, a co-owner of the Milwaukee Bucks; Paul Tudor Jones, a hedge fund manager; and Lance Maerov, an executive at WPP; as well as many yet-to-be-identified officials at the companies. Mr. Weinstein, an entertainment mogul and movie producer, was fired after an avalanche of accusations since October, when The New York Times and The New Yorker reported that Mr. Weinstein had paid off sexual harassment accusers for decades. “Harvey Weinstein is a predator,” the joint statement says. “Bob knew it. The board knew it. The lawyers knew it. The private investigators knew it.” Harvey Weinstein’s lawyers Benjamin Brafman and Blair Berk declined to comment on the suit on Wednesday. While Mr. Weinstein has admitted that his behavior “has caused a lot of pain,’’ he denies that he sexually assaulted women. In an emailed statement, a Miramax spokeswoman said the company “joins the entire film community in condemning Harvey Weinstein and his unspeakable actions.” She added that Miramax had been “completely independent” of Mr. Weinstein and his brother since they founded the Weinstein Company in 2005. The Weinstein Company did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Wednesday. A spokeswoman for Mr. Dolan, who was on the board from mid-2015 to mid-2016, said: “Mr. Dolan is confident that he acted appropriately in all matters relating to his time on the Weinstein board.” A spokesman for Mr. Jones declined to comment on the litigation, but, separately, shared a note that Mr. Jones sent to his company on Wednesday about Mr. Weinstein. “I never knew about those discussions or any of the revelations until they began to surface publicly, and I resigned two days later,” Mr. Jones said in the note. A spokesman for Mr. Lasry declined to comment on Wednesday. And Mr. Maerov did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The plaintiffs in the suit were identified as Louisette Geiss, Katherine Kendall, Zoe Brock, Sarah Ann Masse, Melissa Sagemiller and Nannette Klatt. [Read their statement and the court filing here.] Their statement goes on: “How could so many women have been violated? How could so many people have covered up for him? How could so many people have done nothing to help? Money.” It requests that Mr. Weinstein and his legal team submit a “full mea culpa and admission of the wrongs perpetrated by both him and his enablers.” Since the original news reports, dozens of women including Angelina Jolie, Cara Delevingne and Ashley Judd have come forward, accusing Mr. Weinstein of harassment, assault or worse. On Tuesday, The Times published a follow-up report on how Mr. Weinstein relied on powerful relationships to provide him with cover amid decades of sexual misconduct accusations. A spokeswoman for Harvey Weinstein did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Wednesday. The lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York by Hagens Berman and the Armenta Law Firm. It states that actresses and other women in the film industry were lured to industry events, hotel rooms, Mr. Weinstein’s home, office meetings or auditions to discuss projects, only to be victimized by Mr. Weinstein. “The Weinstein Sexual Enterprise had many participants” and “grew over time as the obfuscation of Weinstein’s conduct became more difficult to conceal,” the suit says. The law firm urged other women to join in the proposed class action and even posted a form online, stating, “if you were in any way threatened or assaulted by Harvey Weinstein, find out your rights.” The police in New York, Los Angeles and London are investigating a range of sexual assault allegations against Mr. Weinstein. In New York, the Manhattan district attorney’s office is working with the police and has also subpoenaed records from Mr. Weinstein’s lawyers and his former business as part of a widening investigation into his finances. Federal prosecutors are conducting a separate criminal investigation into a series of transactions involving Mr. Weinstein, the AIDS charity amfAR and the American Repertory Theater at Harvard.