 A federal judge in Manhattan had plenty of questions for lawyers representing a group of Twitter users who sued President Trump in July after he blocked them on the social media service. And she had even more for the government. The seven users, who had been blocked by the @realDonaldTrump account after criticizing the president, were joined in the lawsuit by the Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University. Their lawyers claimed that Mr. Trump’s Twitter feed is an official government account and that blocking users from following it was a violation of their First Amendment rights. Lawyers from the Department of Justice insisted that the Twitter feed was not, in fact, a public forum. Furthermore, they argued, no one had been meaningfully excluded from it. Twitter posts from the president appear on both Mr. Trump’s @realDonaldTrump account and the presidential @POTUS account. The @realDonaldTrump account, which Mr. Trump started in 2009, has more than 48 million followers; @POTUS, which Mr. Trump took over from President Barack Obama on Jan. 20, 2017, has more than 22 million. The questions that loomed largest over the proceedings did not concern matters of jurisdiction, free speech, or the possibility of the discrimination against certain viewpoints in violation of the First Amendment. Instead, they concerned the nature of Twitter. How does it work? And what exactly is it, these days? The hearing was bogged down for a time as the lawyers argued over whether Twitter was more like a town-hall meeting, a convention, a speech or a private venue. The word “metaphysical” was uttered. As she worked her way through pages of meticulous questions and requests for clarification, Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald of the United States District Court suggested a possible resolution, which involved yet another feature of the platform: Muting. Unlike blocking, muting allows users to follow and reply to the person who has muted them and to be seen by other Twitter users in the process. Users who have been muted by a certain account have no way of knowing it, because the feature only conceals their posts from the person who has muted them. Michael Baer, a Justice Department lawyer representing Mr. Trump, did not dismiss the muting suggestion outright, but insisted that the president was well within his rights to block whomever he pleased. After the hearing, Mr. Baer and his team left without taking questions. Katie Fallow, a lawyer for the Knight Institute, said that she was receptive to the possible compromise. She noted that muting would be “much less restrictive” of her clients’ rights. Nicholas Pappas, a comedy writer and one of the seven plaintiffs, told a gathering of reporters after the hearing that it would be “a great solution,” if he were muted, rather than blocked, by the @realDonaldTrump account. (Mr. Pappas was blocked by that account after tweeting in June: “Trump is right. The government should protect the people. That’s why the courts are protecting us from him.”) Such a compromise may not be so palatable as it sounds. In order to mute the plaintiffs, the president — or someone with access to his account, such as the White House digital director Dan Scavino (@Scavino45 on Twitter) — would have to unblock them first. After the hearing, Rebecca Buckwalter-Poza — a plaintiff who was blocked after writing, “To be fair you didn’t win the WH: Russia won it for you,” in response to a @realDonaldTrump tweet — made clear what she hoped to get out of the lawsuit: “I want to be unblocked.” Judge Buchwald urged both parties to consider the muting idea, warning that each side could end up unhappy with her decision if they failed to compromise. Otherwise, she said, she would rule “in due course.”