 Investigations by The New York Times and Ronan Farrow, 30, of The New Yorker that revealed allegations of sexual harassment and the subsequent silencing of the victims helped topple powerful men — including in Hollywood, politics and Silicon Valley — and prompted a wave of women to share their experiences with abuse. Reporting on accusations against Bill O’Reilly, the former Fox News host, and Harvey Weinstein, the film mogul, inspired the global #MeToo movement that has opened new conversations about gender and power dynamics in the workplace.  The entire staff at The Press Democrat helped cover the wildfires in October that devastated Santa Rosa and surrounding Sonoma County. “Because we live here and we know, we felt it necessary to be scrupulous,” said Catherine Barnett, the paper’s executive editor. “And we just got out and gave it all we had.” Ms. Barnett said some of the paper’s reporters and photographers were evacuating their families even as they chronicled the fires.  The Washington Post won for its dogged reporting on the Republican Senate candidate Roy S. Moore and how he made unwanted sexual advances toward underage girls when he was in his 30s. The resulting stories helped upend an Alabama special election, which was won by Mr. Moore’s Democratic opponent, Doug Jones.  The two news outfits were awarded the prize for a multimedia project that focused on the “difficulties and unintended consequences of fulfilling President Trump’s pledge to construct a wall along the U.S. border with Mexico,” the Pulitzer committee said. The series of stories had a robust digital presence that included text, video, podcasts and even virtual reality. The Enquirer was recognized for its multimedia narrative of seven days inside the city’s heroin epidemic, a period in which 18 people died and at least 180 overdoses were reported across the area. “What we wanted to do was to let our communities here know what people are living every single day,” said Terry DeMio, one of the project’s lead reporters.  More than 60 reporters contributed. “This was the most local news story you can imagine,” said Dan Horn, co-author of the main article with Ms. DeMio. “Everyone was involved in some way, shape or form.”  The organizations were recognized for their reporting on Russia’s influence in the 2016 election, the Trump transition team and the presidential administration. The winning pieces included a report in The Post that Attorney General Jeff Sessions had spoken to Russia’s ambassador to the United States during the presidential campaign, contradicting his confirmation hearing testimony, and a report in The Times that President Trump asked James Comey, then the F.B.I.’s director, to end an inquiry into Michael Flynn.  The three journalists were honored for their work in the Philippines, exposing the “brutal killing campaign” behind President Rodrigo Duterte’s war on drugs. Through crime data and interviews, the reporters challenged official accounts about the killing of drug suspects in the country. “We basically used the police’s own data to prove exactly what they were doing,” said Ms. Baldwin, 34. She said the award, shared with Mr. Marshall, 50, and Mr. Mogato, was a “huge honor” and that she hoped it would draw more attention to the ongoing killings.  Ms. Ghansah’s portrait of Dylann Roof was cited for its “unique and powerful mix of reportage, first-person reflection and analysis of the historical and cultural forces” behind his murder of nine parishioners at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in June 2015. It was the first Pulitzer for GQ magazine. Ms. Ghansah, 36, said that she initially thought her piece would be centered on the victims’ families but that “it felt inappropriate to keep probing them while allowing Dylann Roof to have the sanctity of silence we often afford white domestic terrorists.” Ms. Ghansah, an essayist, added that she wanted to honor them “very, very much.”  Mr. Archibald, 55, was cited for “lyrical and courageous commentary” that focused on issues in Alabama but had a wide resonance, like Confederate monuments. In a series of columns, he also wrestled with the failed Senate campaign of Roy S. Moore, who was accused of sexual misconduct by multiple women yet enjoyed significant support at home and from the Republican Party. “Even though it was just a small squeaker win” for Mr. Moore’s opponent, Doug Jones, Mr. Archibald said, “it was a message to women that this can’t be tolerated anymore.” Mr. Saltz, 67, was cited for his “canny and often daring perspective on visual art in America,” including analyses of the political undercurrents in the Whitney Biennial at the Whitney Museum of American Art and the lasting influence of Michelangelo, as well as an unflinching look at his own career as a “failed artist.” It was the first Pulitzer for New York magazine. Describing his personal and direct approach to criticism, Mr. Saltz said, “I should be as vulnerable in my work as the artist is in her or his work.” Ms. Dominick was cited for examining the consequences of Iowa’s Medicaid privatization, as well as the broader health care challenges mounting for regular Iowans, “in a clear, indignant voice, free of cliché or sentimentality.” Ms. Dominick, who was a Pulitzer finalist in 2014, told her newsroom colleagues that she hoped her paper would “continue to work to make Iowa a better place to live.” In “Welcome to the New World,” Mr. Halpern and Mr. Sloan told the story of the families of two Syrian brothers, Jamil and Ammar, came to the United States on Nov. 8, 2016 — Election Day. The 20-part nonfiction comic series — the first of its kind to win a Pulitzer — provided a vivid and frequently harrowing depiction of the modern refugee experience in the United States. The episodes were based on months of interviews and reporting, but Mr. Halpern, 42, suggested that some of its most powerful moments were frames that contained no words at all.  Mr. Kelly, 31, was recognized for his swift and precise work during a white nationalist rally in August in Charlottesville, Va., where he photographed a car plowing through a crowd of people protesting the gathering. One woman, Heather Heyer, died as 16 others were injured. It was Mr. Kelly’s final assignment as a staff photographer for The Daily Progress. He now lives in Richmond, Va., where he is a freelance photographer. Reuters was cited for its “shocking photographs” of Rohingya refugees as they escaped persecution in Myanmar to reach the Bangladesh border. “All the talent we had we directed to this story because it’s such an important story for the world to know,” said Ahmad Masood, editor of pictures for Reuters. Working around visa ​restrictions, Mr. Masood assigned over a dozen photographers from around the world to cover the Rohingya’s struggles in shifts. There were often three photographers at a time chronicling the thousands of refugees crossing the border by land and sea. ​  The protagonist of Mr. Greer’s novel is Arthur Less, a novelist on the verge of 50 who, feeling the humiliations of life and career, reluctantly accepts invitations to a string of disastrous literary events. His travels, filled with comic and poignant incident, take him to New York, Paris, Berlin, Morocco, southern India and Kyoto, Japan. In The New York Times Book Review, Christopher Buckley called “Less” the “funniest, smartest and most humane” novel he had read in several years. Mr. Greer, 47, is the author of six works of fiction, including “The Confessions of Max Tivoli” and “The Story of a Marriage.” Ms. Majok, 33, a Polish immigrant who saw her first theater show at 17 after winning $45 from playing pool, initially wrote this as a short work called “John, Who’s Here From Cambridge.” It evolved to its finished form and opened Off Broadway at the Manhattan Theater Club last June. The play received plaudits for its striking portrait of the obstacles that come with having a physical disability in various forms and privilege that exists in unexpected places.  The Gulf of Mexico is the world’s tenth-largest body of water. But until Mr. Davis’s book, which traces its history from the Pleistocene to the present, it had never gotten a comprehensive history, the committee noted in its citation. Mr. Davis, 61, a professor at the University of Florida (and a near-lifelong Gulfsider), said that the Deepwater Horizon disaster of 2010 had helped shape his mission: to restore “the true identity of the gulf.”  “I wanted to show that it was more than an oil spill, or a sunning beach,” he said. “It has a really wonderful, complex history that has been left out of the broader American narrative.”  The committee cited Ms. Fraser, 57, for “a deeply researched and elegantly written portrait” showing how Wilder, the author of the Little House on the Prairie books, “transformed her family’s story of poverty, failure and struggle into an uplifting tale of self-reliance, familial love and perseverance.” Ms. Fraser, who lives in Santa Fe, N.M., said that she — “like everyone else” — had adored the books as a child, but came to appreciate the sweeping and much darker history behind them. “Wilder was an amazing figure who tells us so much about the way Americans want to think about westward expansion,” she said. “She exposes all our fantasies.” After the publication of Mr. Bidart’s previous book, “Metaphysical Dog” (2013), the agent Andrew Wylie told him he should publish a career-spanning collection. “That idea pleased me,” Mr. Bidart, 78, said, “but I don’t know that I would have had the guts to do it without his suggestion.”  “Half-Light” also won a National Book Award and Mr. Bidart can’t help but see the recognition as an endorsement of his long career. “Both my parents died at 60,” he said. “Two of my closest poet friends — Robert Lowell died at 60 and Elizabeth Bishop died at 68. None of this would have happened if I had died at their age. I’m just damn lucky.” Mr. Forman’s book looks at the ways in which real-time responses to crises in black communities beginning in the late 1960s helped unintentionally lead to mass incarceration. Mr. Forman, 50, took about four years to research the book, but felt the first stirrings of it while working as a public defender in Washington, D.C. “When you’re working as a public defender, you don’t have time to brush your teeth sometimes, let alone write a book,” Mr. Forman, now a professor at Yale Law School, said. Mr. Lamar, a 30-year-old from Compton, Calif., is the first winner who did not produce classical or jazz music — and certainly the first rapper. Mr. Lamar’s fourth LP topped the charts while also tackling thorny personal and political issues, including race, faith and the burdens of commercial success. The Pulitzer board called it “a virtuosic song collection unified by its vernacular authenticity and rhythmic dynamism that offers affecting vignettes capturing the complexity of modern African-American life.” 