 GOVERNMENT The Congressional Budget Office will release its annual Budget and Economic Outlook on Monday afternoon, revealing 10-year projections on a variety of economic indicators including growth rates and the national debt. The report was delayed by several months because of the tax cut legislation approved by Congress late last year. The budget office needed additional time so that it could more accurately assess the effects of the new law. The figures from the budget office will be closely watched and compared with the economic projections that have been made by the Trump administration. Most economists have concluded that Mr. Trump’s projections are overly optimistic, and the report from the nonpartisan budget office will most likely underscore that point. Alan Rappeport ECONOMY China’s president, Xi Jinping, will address the Boao Forum in the southern Chinese island province of Hainan on Tuesday. Mr. Xi is expected to unveil new reforms, including economic measures, something he has highlighted as a priority. The forum, which has positioned itself as an Asian rival to Europe’s World Economic Forum in Switzerland, will include panels and discussions with business leaders like the Indian tycoon Ratan Tata, of Tata Sons, and Jack Ma, the billionaire founder of the Chinese online shopping giant Alibaba. A handful of foreign leaders will also be there, including Rodrigo Duterte, the president of the Philippines, and Singapore’s prime minister, Lee Hsien Loong. The forum, with the theme, “An Open and Innovative Asia for a World of Greater Prosperity,” begins on Sunday and finishes up on Wednesday. Alexandra Stevenson TECHNOLOGY Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, will face two days of congressional hearings over the company’s mishandling of user data. Facebook said the sensitive data of an estimated 87 million of its users had been improperly harvested by the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, which was connected to the Trump campaign. Mr. Zuckerberg’s marathon testimonies on Capitol Hill will begin on Tuesday at 2:15 p.m. with a joint hearing by the Senate Judiciary and Commerce committees. An estimated 44 members of those committees will take turns asking questions of the 33-year-old executive. Then on Wednesday, Mr. Zuckerberg will appear before the House Energy and Commerce Committee at 10 a.m. for further questions. Cecilia Kang ECONOMY The Federal Reserve last month raised interest rates for the sixth time since the financial crisis 10 years ago. On Wednesday, the Fed will provide a clearer picture of what led to that decision when it releases minutes from its March meeting, Jerome Powell’s first as Fed chairman. Investors will be looking for hints that policymakers have become more concerned about inflation, which could lead the Fed to raise rates faster than currently expected. The minutes could also reveal how Mr. Powell and his colleagues view recent trade tensions, although the meeting preceded the most recent round of tariff announcements. Ben Casselman The unusual combination of tax cuts, government spending increases and low unemployment has touched off fears in recent months that the American economy may begin to overheat. So far, those concerns have been largely theoretical — inflation has mostly stayed below the Federal Reserve’s 2 percent target. Data released by the Labor Department on Wednesday, however, will most likely show that consumer prices rose 2.4 percent in March from a year earlier, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That increase would result partly from a decline in prices last March. But it could nonetheless rattle investors who are already jittery after last week’s market turmoil. Ben Casselman GOVERNMENT Mick Mulvaney, the director of the White House Office of Management and Budget as well as acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, will testify before Congress on Wednesday and Thursday, taking questions from members of both the House and the Senate. He will be discussing his work at the consumer bureau, where he has been moonlighting since late last year. The questions from Democrats are expected to get testy, because Mr. Mulvaney is a longtime critic of the consumer bureau. He has been conducting an extensive review of all of its rules, essentially bringing much of the agency’s work to a standstill, while calling on staff to enforce regulations with “humility.” Alan Rappeport TRADE President Trump will travel to the Summit of the Americas, to be held on Friday and Saturday in Lima, Peru, where he was expected to meet with heads of state from Canada and Mexico. Some Trump administration trade advisers have indicated that they hope the three countries can announce a preliminary deal on the North American Free Trade Agreement at the event, though that outcome would hinge on continuing talks among the countries. Ana Swanson BANKING INDUSTRY The first three of the country’s biggest banks will report quarterly earnings on Friday, giving the public its first look at the big banks’ business since President Trump’s tax reforms became law. Citigroup, JPMorgan and Wells Fargo will reveal their results, which analysts think could reflect a boost from the wild swings in the prices of stocks and other assets in February and March. Emily Flitter