 Stocks on Wall Street finished higher on Wednesday, as a report of higher-than-expected inflation was tempered by data showing weaker retail sales. Wall Street indexes hit all-time highs in January, driven in large part by a bevy of positive economic data, a new tax law that would drastically cut the overall corporate tax rate, and years of easy access to money as a result of central bank policies. But a long-running bull market has reversed sharply in the past two weeks. Central banks appear to be tightening monetary policy, which would raise the cost of borrowing and could eat into corporate profits, and data suggests that wage growth is accelerating in the United States. Several days of sell-offs last week pushed the United States stock market into a correction, indicating a severe downward trend. Since then, stocks have risen four days in a row. Stocks initially dropped on Wednesday, reflecting the January inflation data that was released before the market opened. Prices rose 0.5 percent last month and 2.1 percent over the past 12 months, beating analysts’ expectations. The yield on the United States Treasury’s 10-year note rose sharply through the day, reaching 2.90 percent. The inflation data was countered by unexpectedly poor retail sales figures. The Commerce Department reported that sales decreased 0.3 percent in January, and the figure for December was revised to show sales unchanged instead of rising 0.4 percent as previously reported. Investors fear the accelerating pace of inflation in the United States could prompt the Federal Reserve to quicken its pace of interest rate increases. It is the latest sign that central banks in Europe and the United States plan to raise interest rates after keeping them at or near historic lows for years, a shift that has weighed on stocks. The low rates were intended to bolster economic growth in the wake of the financial crisis, pushing market rates lower and helping companies borrow more cheaply. The Bank of England was the latest to warn of a shift, saying last week after a meeting of its monetary policy committee that it may have to raise interest rates “somewhat earlier and by a somewhat greater extent” than it had estimated late last year. The comments contributed to rising yields on government bonds, which move inversely to prices. That can make borrowing money more expensive not just for governments, but also for companies. Stock markets in Asia and Europe showed limited movement on Wednesday. Japan’s benchmark index, the Nikkei 225, was down less than 0.5 percent at the close, while markets in London, Frankfurt and Paris all closed higher.