 Good Tuesday. Here’s what we’re watching: • Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase are teaming up to form a health care company. • Ken Chenault is moving to venture capital. • JPMorgan has (and hasn’t) clarified its succession plans. • What should we expect in tonight’s State of the Union speech? Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up. Health care stocks fell on news that Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan are partnering to form a venture to lower the health care costs of their employees. The e-commerce giant has so disrupted businesses from booksellers to grocers to department stores over its two decades as a public company that just the mere mention of it entering a new sector spooks investors. And with good reason. Amazon could spend huge sums, and bear years of losses, to win customers with lower prices. But beyond that threat, there are some big questions looming over the initiative. 1) What is it? The venture will be an independent company that “is free from profit-making incentives and constraints.” That sounds liberating, and there is no reason to think it won’t be, but such visionary language would pack a bigger punch if it was accompanied by hard cash. The release did not give details about the initial investment in the venture. 2) How big will it really be? The effort focuses on the United States employees of JPMorgan Chase, Amazon and Berkshire Hathaway. Together, the companies have nearly one million employees (a portion of those, though, are outside of the United States.) That’s a lot of employees but relatively small when compared with 157 million people who had employer health care plans at the end of 2016, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. Would the venture be able to scale up? Some experts are skeptical about that. Ben Gomes-Casseres, a professor of international business at Brandeis, wrote: “My bet is that JPMorgan and Amazon’s employees have pretty good health coverage, with plans that rank among the richest that the industry has to offer. If so, will these lead users be anxious to find a more cost-effective model? Will they even be willing to experiment with their coverage? And, beyond that – if they do develop a new approach, will it be helpful to the masses of employees at lesser companies, or, worse, the unemployed and uninsured?” 3) Do these companies bring valuable expertise to providing health care at a lower cost? It’s not clear how much more expertise Amazon, Berkshire and JPMorgan have than companies that have been operating in health care for decades. Amazon could have gotten into pharmacy services years ago, if it had wanted, which means it might have seen complexities and risks that don’t exist in other sectors. Berkshire brings a strong insurance specialization, but not in providing health insurance directly to the consumer. What is more, Berkshire’s point man in the joint health care effort will be Todd Combs, an investor who does not come from the insurance operations of the company. 4) If the high cost of health care is the main problem, what can this venture do to cut costs? Much depends on whether the effort can address the main reason that health care spending has gone up in the United States versus other countries. A recent Upshot column showed how much of the rise is a result of more being done for patients during hospital stays and doctor visits, or that they are charged more for those services. One way to assess the brash new initiative from Jeff Bezos, Warren Buffett and Jamie Dimon is whether it does anything to address this dynamic. — Peter Eavis That’s how Warren Buffett referred to the nation’s “ballooning costs of health care” Tuesday. Mr. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway announced it is teaming up with JPMorgan Chase and Amazon to form an independent health care company to serve their employees in the United States. The three companies provided few details about the new entity, other than saying it would initially focus on technology to provide simplified, high-quality health care for their employees and their families, and at a reasonable cost. They said the initiative, which is in the early planning stages, would be a long-term effort “free from profit-making incentives and constraints.” Mr. Buffett’s concern about rising health care costs is not new, nor is his use of “tapeworm” to describe them. Mr. Buffett’s statement Tuesday echoes other recent comments he has made on the subject. He trotted out the tapeworm metaphor to describe rising medical costs during television interviews in 2010 and 2012, MoneyBeat’s Ben Eisen and Erik Holm point out. At Berkshire’s annual meeting in May, he said: “Medical costs are the tapeworm of American economic competitiveness.” In fact, Mr. Buffett use of the tapeworm metaphor to describe drags on the economy dates back more than three-and-a-half decades at least. Mr. Buffett wrote in his 1981 shareholder letter: “Inflation acts as a gigantic corporate tapeworm.” Then in his 2013 letter to Berkshire shareholders, he wrote: “Citizens and public officials typically under-appreciated the gigantic financial tapeworm that was born when promises were made that conflicted with a willingness to fund them.” The smooth glide higher for U.S. stock markets may be hitting a bumpier stretch. Volatility, as measured by the widely followed C.B.O.E. Volatility Index, or VIX, jumped nearly 30 percent in recent days as investors paused to consider the ongoing sell-off in the United States dollar and rising yields on United States government debt. The S.&amp;P. 500 stock index dropped roughly 0.7 percent early Tuesday and could notch its second consecutive decline, something that hasn’t happened since mid-December. Low interest rates have been a key ingredient in the almost relentless rise in U.S. equity markets. But with the yield on the benchmark U.S. 10-year Treasury now above 2.70 percent, its highest level in four years, that backdrop could be changing. — Matt Phillips Despite being inundated by post-American Express job offers, Ken Chenault has chosen an interesting path: becoming chairman and managing partner of General Catalyst Partners, which has invested in Airbnb, Warby Parker and Stripe, among others. More interesting is why he’s taking the job, Andrew writes in his latest DealBook column. He’s hoping to be the adult in the room for the next generation of start-ups, after the troubles at Uber, SoFi and more. Here’s what he told Andrew: In selecting Rob Shafir — previously the head of Credit Suisse’s American operations — as the successor to Daniel Och, the hedge fund has apparently laid to rest questions about its leadership planning. A reminder: Before Mr. Shafir, Mr. Och’s chosen successor was James Levin. Then the two men had a falling out. Mr. Och’s statement: And a statement by Mr. Levin, who had weighed quitting — but was identified in today’s statement as still being Och-Ziff’s co-chief investment officer: — Michael J. de la Merced The JPMorgan Chase chief said yesterday that he plans to stick around another five years. So who will eventually pick up the baton? In the short term: It could be Daniel Pinto, the head of JPMorgan’s investment bank, or Gordon Smith, the head of its consumer bank. They were named co-presidents yesterday — but Mr. Pinto is 55 and Mr. Smith is 59. In the longer term: It could be one of the other executives named in the firm’s statement: • Mary Erdoes, 50, who runs the asset and wealth management arm • Doug Petno, 52, who runs the commercial banking division • Marianne Lake, 48, the C.F.O. “The board and Dimon both believe that under all timing scenarios, whether today or in the future, the company has several highly capable successors in place,” JPMorgan said in its statement. But the firm has had trouble holding onto potential successors over the years. The political question: Mr. Dimon has said publicly that he isn’t going to run for president. (There’s been speculation, and friends are still encouraging him to try.) Critics’ corner • Antony Currie writes, “JPMorgan has given Jamie Dimon the freedom to outstay his welcome.” (Breakingviews) • Lex writes, “As murky as the future is, the situation at JPMorgan is probably preferable to Goldman, where there is a ferocious thinly-disguised competition between the two co-presidents for the top job.” (FT) Surely jobs and the economy, given how often he has spoken on those topics (including at the World Economic Forum in Davos). Politico also suggests infrastructure, immigration, trade and national security. But here are the big questions: • Will President Trump stick to the script and focus on issues like spending $1 trillion on infrastructure? • How hard will he press the White House immigration proposal? Democrats are opposed, and the next shutdown deadline is Feb. 8. • Will he touch on health care, given that Republicans have so far rolled back only a small portion of the Affordable Care Act? • Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee voted to release a contentious memo alleging improprieties in the surveillance of a Trump campaign associate. The Justice Department had wanted it kept secret. (NYT) • The Trump administration declined to issue new sanctions against Russia. (Axios) • Congressional Republicans are hoping to tame President Trump’s stances on trade. (Politico) • Businesses and investors are starting to focus on a little-noticed provision in the tax overhaul: “opportunity zones” to draw investment in economically disadvantaged areas. (NYT) • The F.B.I.’s deputy director, Andrew McCabe, is stepping down after months of criticism by Mr. Trump. (NBC News) Both the F.C.C. and the telecom industry are against a plan created at the National Security Council and reported by Axios. Here’s what Ajit Pai of the F.C.C. said: The White House itself backed away from the proposal and appears to prefer focusing on building secure networks using 5G tech. What’s behind the controversy, from Cecilia Kang and Mark Landler of the NYT: Elsewhere in tech • Facebook will promote local news, Mark Zuckerberg says. And pediatric and mental health experts are asking him to discontinue a children’s messaging service. • How committed is Kodak to virtual currency? (NYT) • Microsoft issued an update to Intel’s update mitigating the Spectre security flaw. (CNBC) • Strava users in the U.S. military have inadvertently disclosed their locations and habits, including in sensitive areas in Iraq and Syria. (NYT) Listed in the phalanx of bankers and lawyers behind the $18.7 billion Dr Pepper Snapple deal is a name you might easily miss, “AFW LP.” It’s short for “Antonio Francesco Weiss,” the former Lazard banker and Treasury Department official — and an adviser to Keurig. The recap Mr. Weiss was one of Lazard’s biggest deal makers, eventually becoming the firm’s global head of investment banking. He worked on InBev’s takeover of Anheuser Busch and Reynolds American’s takeover of Lorillard. (He also sold D.E. Master Blenders to JAB, the investment firm that later bought Keurig.) But Mr. Weiss left Lazard to become a counselor at the Treasury Department under the Obama administration, taking on issues like Puerto Rico’s debt crisis and new lending marketplaces. Since then He’s become a senior fellow at the Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government at Harvard’s Kennedy School, and a director at the Volcker Alliance. He has considered getting back into investment banking, and has been courted by many a bank. And he might yet start his own shop. Companies want to go public. But recent news suggests that many want to avoid the initial public offering process. • Exhibit A: Keurig’s $18.7 billion deal with Dr Pepper Snapple Group, which would let JAB take the coffee maker public. • Exhibit B: Dell is contemplating a reverse merger with VMware, according to CNBC. (That’s one of several options, we’ve been told.) • Exhibit C: Spotify. Of course, there will still be I.P.O.s.: Uber, Dropbox and Airbnb are all working toward offerings. But if some companies can avoid the process, it appears they will. • Blackstone is in advanced talks to buy about 55 percent of Thomson Reuters’ Financial and Risk business, valuing the unit at about $20 billion, including debt, according to unnamed sources. (Reuters, NYT) • Qualcomm is under growing pressure to negotiate with NXP shareholders, who have become frustrated at its reluctance to discuss raising its bid. (Bloomberg) • The Japanese chip maker Renesas Electronics is in talks to buy Maxim Integrated for close to $20 billion, according to unnamed sources. (CNBC) • Polychain Capital, the hedge fund investing in blockchain assets that’s backed by Sequoia Capital and Andreessen Horowitz, talked to bankers about going public in Canada but decided against. (Bloomberg) • SAP will buy Callidus Software for $2.4 billion, its biggest deal in more than three years. (Bloomberg) • Dalian Wanda is getting a $5.4 billion investment in its property unit and has put two overseas property developments up for sale, according to unnamed sources. (Bloomberg) • Elliott Management is in talks to take over Waterstones, the British book chain owned by the Russian billionaire Alexander Mamut since 2011. (Sky News) • Stephen Pitts, a senior financing banker at Deutsche Bank who is close to SoftBank, has left for Bank of America Merrill Lynch. (WSJ) • Tom Harty, Meredith’s chief operating officer, will take over as the C.E.O. of the combined Meredith and Time Inc. (WSJ) • Jim Rich will become the editor in chief of the N.Y. Daily News as Jim Kirk takes over the L.A. Times. (NYT) • Wells Fargo named Michael DeVito as the permanent head of its mortgage division. (WSJ) • New Jersey’s newly elected governor, Philip D. Murphy, ordered his state to rejoin a regional carbon trading program. A growing number of Democratic state governors are considering taxing or pricing carbon dioxide emissions. (NYT) • Britain would be worse off outside the European Union under every scenario modeled in a British government analysis. (Buzzfeed) • Janet Yellen will preside over her final policymaking meeting today and tomorrow, in which the Fed is expected to leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged. (NYT) • Discussions on revamping the North American Free Trade Agreement moved from stalemate to negotiation during the sixth round of talks, which concluded on Monday. (NYT) • To get funds for new stadiums, the N.F.L. dangles the prospect of hosting the Super Bowl. But the windfall generated by the event could be overstated. (NYT) • People are sharing their 401(k) balances on social media. (MarketWatch) • HNA Group told creditors its ability to repay debt will face a potential shortfall of $2.4 billion in the first quarter, according to people with knowledge of the matter. (Bloomberg) • Elon Musk’s tunneling start-up, Boring Company, has started selling a branded flamethrower. It had taken thousands of orders worth $5 million by Monday. (Bloomberg) • Indecision at the highest levels of government about Saudi Aramco’s planned initial public offering is causing frustration among company executives and financial advisers. (FT) • Exxon Mobil plans to spend $50 billion on expanding its U.S. business in the next five years, saying that the tax overhaul had “enhanced” its investments. (WSJ) We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.