 Good Thursday. Here’s what we’re watching: • Steven Mnuchin brought his version of “America First” to Davos with a knock on the value of the dollar. • G.E.’s string of tough breaks continues. • Stevie Cohen wants to get closer to the G.O.P. • Why is SoftBank trying to raise more debt? Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up. Davos update of the day: Here at Davos, you can sort of tell the relative power of the individual by how casually they’re dressed. While many attendees wear business suits and snow boots, Jamie Dimon yesterday sported a North Face jacket and dad jeans. (Lloyd Blankfein opted for a more business-casual suit-but-no-tie look.) TPG’s David Bonderman had been known to wear a, shall we say, well-worn fleece. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin yesterday at the World Economic Forum: “Obviously, a weaker dollar is good for us as it relates to trade and opportunities.” Christine Lagarde’s response: “I really hope that Secretary Mnuchin has a chance to clarify exactly what he said.” (Bob Rubin also diplomatically rebuked any effort to weaken the dollar to lift trade.) Today, Mr. Mnuchin said the dollar was “not a concern of mine,” and professed faith in its long-term strength. The bigger picture, courtesy of Ben White in Politico: Said at Davos • Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase told CNBC, “I promise you, we are going to be sitting here in a year and you all will be worrying about inflation and wages going up too high.” • Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman Sachs said of President Trump: “I don’t want to be hypocritical, either. I’ve really liked what he’s done for the economy.” • Sundar Pichai of Google said about taxes: “We are happy to pay a higher amount, whatever the world agrees on as the right framework. It’s not an issue about the amount of tax we pay, as much as how you divide it among various countries.” • Jack Ma of Alibaba said on a panel: “I think globalization cannot be stopped. Nobody can stop globalization. Nobody can stop trade. And I believe, if trade stops, war starts.” • Raymond Nolte of SkyBridge Capital said, “If you take away Trump’s Twitter ridiculousness, it’s actually been a pretty good year for the business community.” More from the World Economic Forum • European leaders like Emmanuel Macron (who reportedly persuaded Mr. Trump to come) and Angela Merkel forcefully defended international cooperation and globalization. (NYT) • Liu He, an influential senior adviser to President Xi Jinping, said China would bring its debt under control within three years. (NYT) • All of Mr. Trump’s friends and frenemies at Davos. (Bloomberg) A Davos scheduling bonus Take a guess: Which former high-powered Wall Street executive who, when bumped into at the bottom of the hill leading up to Mr. Deripaska’s chalet and asked in jest if he was headed to the “oligarch party,” declared that his firm “did not hang out with oligarchs” — and then sauntered up the hill to the party? Shares of Viacom and CBS jumped ahead of the close after Reuters reported that the two companies had held an exploratory discussion about merging, citing sources familiar with the matter. The boards of both companies are expected to discuss the potential merger at their regularly scheduled meetings in the next couple of weeks, Reuters reports. The context: Recombining the two companies has been much speculated in recent years as media companies tried to add scale. Shari Redstone, who along with her father, Sumner Redstone, controls the two companies, tried to merge them in 2016. Those efforts faltered over the concerns of CBS’ directors and CBS’s chief executive, Les Moonves. But Walt Disney’s deal for much of 21st Century Fox late last year has sparked much strategic rethinking across the industry. It is, of course, Oprah. Here’s what she told InStyle magazine: Completely coincidentally, we’re sure, shares in Weight Watchers International were down 3 percent this morning: From a client memo by David Katz and Laura McIntosh of the law firm Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &amp; Katz: Among the best ways to better address the issue at a company: having more women on corporate boards and in senior management positions. — Michael J. de la Merced Shares of the biggest American technology companies have continued to surge in 2018. The S&amp;P 500 technology sector is up 7.6 percent to start 2018. Amazon.com has risen 17 percent, Alphabet is up 12 percent, and Microsoft has climbed 8.4 percent, writes MoneyBeat’s Ben Eisen. Meanwhile, Apple has lagged a bit in 2018, up just 1.8 percent. If the rally persists, then the four biggest companies in the Standard &amp; Poor’s 500 index could all soon be flirting with the $1 trillion mark. Apple: $884 billion.  Alphabet: $814 billion Microsoft: $713 billion Amazon: $656 billion Bad enough that the embattled industrial giant had to announce that GE Capital would suspend dividends to the group, after a $6.2 billion charge tied to its reinsurance operations. Now the S.E.C. is taking a look, and questions are being raised about the conglomerate’s famously opaque accounting. Its shares fell 2.7 percent yesterday. Critics’ corner • Spencer Jakab writes, “Sunlight may be the best disinfectant, but General Electric is learning that it can leave some nasty burns — particularly for those who have spent too much time in the shade.” (Heard on the Street) • Tom Buerkle writes of G.E.’s chief, John Flannery, “Flannery’s time to draw a line under past mistakes is shrinking — and with it the likelihood that he can show that G.E.’s diverse businesses are better together than apart.” (Breakingviews) Point 72 is on the verge of managing outside money and operating as a true hedge fund again. So, it appears, its chief is seeking friends in Washington. Mr. Cohen donated $2 million to the Senate Leadership Fund and $1 million to the Congressional Leadership Fund, Fox Business reports. That made him the top donor to both Republican super PACs. (He previously gave money to both parties.) More from Brian Schwartz and Charlie Gasparino: • An immigration bill sponsored by Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah, would permit more H-1B skilled worker visas: 195,000 a year. (Axios) • Mr. Trump said he was willing to be interviewed under oath for Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation. (NYT) • Mr. Trump also said he favored offer citizenship to the young immigrants known as Dreamers, days after rejecting a bipartisan bill with that as its centerpiece. (NYT) • Alex Azar was confirmed yesterday as secretary of health and human services. (NYT) Its Vision Fund has nearly $100 billion in equity to spend. But here’s how the Japanese conglomerate is reportedly planning to raise yet more capital, according to The Information: • Borrow as much as $5 billion against its stake in the British chip maker ARM • Potentially borrow against its new 15 percent stake in Uber The bigger picture: SoftBank is no stranger to debt, with $103 billion in long-term borrowings on its books as of Sept. 30. But analysts have questioned whether Masa Son’s company is using leverage too aggressively. Some comes due this year — and a huge amount in 2024. When the Vision Fund’s interest makes life difficult: SoftBank’s deliberations over whether to invest in Wag, a dog-walking app, have elbowed aside other investors, according to The Information — though it isn’t clear whether Mr. Son will follow through. • Nearly $30 billion worth of health care deals has been announced this month as drug makers look to acquire new treatments. Some in the industry fear valuations are getting too rich. (FT) • The hedge funds Corvex Capital Management and 40 North have given up their fight over the chemical maker Clariant, selling their stake to Saudi Arabia’s state-controlled chemical producer. (FT) • K.K.R. has sold its remaining 12.3 percent of Pets at Home. (FT) • Sun Basket is raising money despite a bear market for meal-kit companies. It’s promising to limit investors’ risks. (The Information) • Alibaba and Kroger have had preliminary discussions about a partnership, apparently in a response to Amazon’s grocery moves. (NY Post) • RPX, a manager of patent-related issues, is considering selling itself and has drawn interest from investment firms, according to unnamed sources. (Reuters) From Javier Blas, in Bloomberg Businessweek’s latest cover story: • The Presidents Club Charitable Trust has shut down after the FT revealed that participants at its annual men-only dinner groped, harassed and propositioned young women serving them. (FT) • Hollywood has absorbed the #MeToo critiques — and converted them into digestible branding exercises. (NYT) • The #MeToo movement is having a harder time in China, including from censors. (NYT) • Snapchat’s vice president of product, Tom Conrad, is leaving in March. (Evan Spiegel makes the big product decisions.) (Recode) • Meg Whitman will become the C.E.O. of Jeffrey Katzenberg’s short-form video start-up . (Recode, The Information) • Evercore has hired Adam Taetle, most recently the co-head of Barclays’ consumer retail investment banking team, as a senior managing director and head of its retail practice. (Evercore) • Marijuana start-ups are largely looking beyond the old-fashioned joint. (NYT) • Switzerland wants to be a “crypto nation” and its initial coin offering industry is burgeoning. (FT) • Mr. Trump has offered the coal industry some regulatory relief, but market forces remain against it. (NYT) • Wall Street isn’t buying Jim Hackett’s plan to reinvigorate Ford Motor. (NYT) • Last year was the costliest on record for weather disasters. Some struggling insurers are considering selling up. (FT) • After Hurricane Maria, Puerto Rico will not be able to pay down any portion of its more than $70 billion debt over the next five years. (NYT) • A bank in China found that HNA had put up the same shares as collateral for multiple loans, according to people with knowledge of the matter, and responded by freezing related accounts. (Bloomberg) • The June mayoral election in San Francisco will be a battle over technology’s influence on the city and its politics. (NYT) We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.