 Here’s what to expect in the week ahead: ECONOMY Official data being released Tuesday is expected to confirm that the European economy continued to boom in the final three months of 2017, with no signs of a slowdown. Eurostat, the European Union’s official statistics agency, will publish an estimate of the economy’s growth that analysts expect will show that the eurozone is expanding at an annual pace of around 2.5 percent. But while Germany is suffering from labor shortages, there are still pockets of woe like Greece. Jack Ewing Janet L. Yellen will preside over her final meeting as Federal Reserve chairwoman on Tuesday and Wednesday. She will complete her four-year term at the end of the week and her successor, Jerome H. Powell, is waiting in the wings. The Fed raised its benchmark rate at its last meeting, in December, and another rate increase is expected at its  meeting in March. The January meeting, however, is expected to pass quietly — one Wall Street analyst advised clients to hit the snooze button. If history is any guide, Fed officials will deliver tributes to Ms. Yellen at the meeting, but the details won’t be shared with the public until the meeting transcripts are released in five years. Binyamin Appelbaum OIL INDUSTRY Mexico will auction 29 deepwater exploration blocks in the Gulf of Mexico to international oil companies on Wednesday as part of its broad opening to private energy investment. Among the potential bidders are the big oil companies Chevron, BP, Shell and Exxon Mobil. Mexico’s deepwater reserves have not been developed but their geology is similar to productive fields on the side of the gulf controlled by the United States. The auction, covering areas over more than 27,000 square miles, is one of the last before Mexico’s presidential election is held on July 1. The front-runner in the polls, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, has said he would review private oil contracts and the Energy Ministry is speeding ahead with auctions before President Enrique Peña Nieto’s term ends in December. Last week, it announced a new auction of 37 onshore oil and gas fields for July 25. Elisabeth Malkin TECH Earnings season for technology companies will begin with a bang this week. On Wednesday, investors will be watching for further details from Facebook on how its plans to fix its problems, including claims of bogus news, will affect its business. That same day, Microsoft will report on whether its cloud computing business continues to grow at a strong clip. The three As of tech — Apple, Amazon and Alphabet, the parent company of Google — are expected to provide more insight on Thursday into how well devices like the iPhone, Amazon Echo and Google Home sold over the holiday quarter. Nick Wingfield The message from oil companies this week is likely to be that their business is once again a moneymaking machine. Royal Dutch Shell, Europe’s largest oil company, is expected to report fourth quarter 2017 earnings on Thursday, followed by Exxon Mobil and Chevron on Friday. The operating environment for oil companies has improved greatly after some grim years caused by a price crash that began in 2014 and dropped prices to the $30 a barrel range. Prices have jumped in recent months thanks to strong global demand and output curbs orchestrated by Saudi Arabia and Russia; Brent crude has now climbed back to the $70 a barrel range. At the same time, oil companies have used low prices to force contractors and suppliers to reduce costs. The result, analysts forecast, should be sharply higher earnings compared with the same period a year earlier. Stanley Reed BANKING Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest lender, will give details on Friday on what it has already said was a “small” loss during the fourth quarter of 2017 because of tax changes in the United States. Deutsche Bank warned earlier this month that it would subtract $1.9 billion from its quarterly profit because of changes that reduced its ability to deduct past losses. At a news conference in Frankfurt, John Cryan, Deutsche Bank’s chief executive, will also face questions — which he will probably decline to answer — about the bank’s work for companies controlled by the family of Jared Kushner, President Trump’s son-in-law. Jack Ewing ECONOMY Despite a modest slowdown in December, job growth was strong in 2017. The latest employment figures from the Labor Department, scheduled to be released Friday, will probably show that solid hiring continued in the new year. Economists surveyed by MarketWatch estimated that American employers added 171,000 jobs in January, which would represent a slight increase from the 148,000 added in December. All eyes will be on wages, which have only risen slowly despite the 4.1 percent unemployment rate, the lowest since 2000. Economists expect a slight uptick in the annual rate of wage growth in January, but their forecasts have frequently proven overly optimistic. Ben Casselman