 President Trump kicked off March by stunning members of his own White House, and leaders across the world, with a vow to impose across-the-board tariffs on steel and aluminum. Within a week of making the announcement, which could provoke a cycle of retaliation between trade partners, Mr. Trump was defending the move even as his White House worked to soften its effects. On Tuesday, Gary D. Cohn, the president’s top economic adviser, said he would resign after appearing to lose an internal battle over the tariffs. A longtime proponent of free trade, he believed the decision could jeopardize economic growth. And then, on Thursday, Mr. Trump signed orders imposing the stiff and sweeping new tariffs. But he also agreed to exempt, for now, Canada and Mexico, and held out the possibility of later excluding allies such as Australia. Here’s an overview of reporting from The New York Times on what the tariffs, of 25 percent on steel and 10 percent on aluminum, could mean for the United States and the world. The contours of a trade war are already taking shape, with threats of retaliation pouring in from around the world and the president stoking a rhetorical battle of his own making. After the European Union threatened counter tariffs on goods like Harley-Davidson motorcycles, Kentucky bourbon and bluejeans, Mr. Trump said he was prepared to escalate the fight by imposing higher taxes on European cars. (China, in the meantime, has been fairly cautious in weighing in.) Within days of the announcement, Paul D. Ryan, a Republican and the speaker of the House, said he was “extremely worried” about a prospective trade war, but Mr. Trump continued to defend the tariffs, suggesting that they could help the United States negotiate better terms with two of its closest trading partners, Canada and Mexico. On Thursday a group of 11 nations — including major United States allies like Canada — signed a broad trade deal that represents a direct challenge to Mr. Trump’s embrace of protectionism. Experts said that the announcement earlier this month not only threatened to undermine economic growth and inspire a trade war, but also underscored Mr. Trump’s capriciousness and willingness to ignore his advisers, a reality they know all too well. “What he has said, he has said. If he says something different, it’ll be something different,” Wilbur Ross, the secretary of commerce, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” While the tariffs would benefit domestic steel and aluminum, industries that rely on the metals could suffer. Shares in Boeing and General Motors fell after the news, for example, while Anheuser-Busch and MillerCoors warned of potential job losses. (The tariffs, though, are unlikely to significantly affect the price of beer cans, which cost about 10 cents to produce.) Small and midsize manufacturers that use steel and aluminum may be in for harder times, too: “There are more losers than winners,” one economist said. For American consumers, that means goods containing metals may well become more expensive, depending on whether businesses choose to pass on the higher costs. (The United States imports about a third of its steel and about 90 percent of its aluminum.) Still, even if many of the week’s events have seemed to have ominous undertones, there is nothing inevitable about a trade war, The Upshot notes, saying that “the chances of a complete breakdown in the global trade system remain remote.”