 “I’ve seen it all,” says the award-winning National Geographic photographer Ami Vitale, about backing up her photos. “I’ve had hard drives fail throughout my career. For example, back when I first started as a photographer, I had a very nice hard drive system in my home, and the whole thing failed.” In retrospect, Ms. Vitale says, she would have definitely set the system up differently. “I lost some historic moments from the first part of my career,” she says, “and they’re gone forever.” Ms. Vitale may shoot photos differently from how most of us capture images these days — she shoots with a digital single-lens-reflex camera (or DSLR). But her cautionary tale should resonate, since many of the same vulnerabilities exist when photographing with smartphones. In other words, if you’re snapping away without a backup plan for your photos, beware: In an instant, you could lose them all, forever. Before I explain how to back up your photos, it’s useful to understand one important aspect of digital photos that relates to storing them properly. Namely, image resolution. Every digital photo has a certain image resolution, which is the total number of pixels that make up a photo. If an image you shot on your smartphone, say, is 4,000 pixels high by 3,000 pixels wide, it contains a total of 12 million pixels (the height multiplied by the width). Since one million pixels is known as a megapixel, the resolution of your smartphone image is 12 megapixels. Now, say you upload that photo to Facebook. When you post it, Facebook, in most instances, downsizes the resolution, or reduces the number of pixels to make it smaller. It may digitally compress it, too, throwing out additional data important to image quality. However, it’s often difficult to visually detect if an image file has been altered, particularly on a smartphone’s small screen. It’s why you might think you’ve backed up your image when uploading it to Facebook or other social media sites, but that’s not really the case. But right now, most websites, including social media and even photo-printing sites, aren’t designed to truly store photos. That’s because when you back up your photos, you want to be able to retrieve an image file that is as close to, if not identical to, the original photo you captured on your phone or digital camera. That’s also why you want to carefully choose a backup solution, whether it’s online or an external hard drive. Unfortunately, preserving the original photo isn’t the only issue you’ll face when backing up your images. You also need to know that there’s no completely foolproof method to backing up your images. There’s always risk. Store images on a hard drive connected to your computer, and, as Ms. Vitale notes, it can fail. Upload images to an online backup service and you face a different problem: You might think using a cloud service from an established company — like Apple, Google, or Amazon — would be safe. Yet, consider Kodak, which for decades functioned as a powerful and lucrative photography company. In fact, in 2001, it created an impressive photo-sharing and photo-storage site, called the Kodak Gallery. Yet, despite its heritage and know-how, the company declared bankruptcy in 2012, shutting down its entire operation, including the Kodak Gallery, where many photographers had images stored. The important takeaway here is that you should consider using a combination of services and solutions to safely back up photos. Ideally, store them both online and on two external hard drives (one stored locally and another at a different location). However, at the very least, consider using one online backup, which lets you copy and transfer the photos on your phone, as well as other devices, to an alternate location. One of the most effective ways to back up photos on smartphones is by using one of several well-known cloud services, such as Apple iCloud, Google Photos, Amazon’s Prime Photos, and Dropbox. One reason you should use them is that they all share an important feature: automatic backups. (Note: You’ll find this feature on other services, as well.) “You can never predict when a crash will happen or your phone will be stolen,” says Jill Duffy, a contributing technology editor who covers productivity for PCMag.com. Each also offers free versions to back up your photos, although it’s generally just a small amount of storage space. You’ll also want to be sure to drill down and examine the details of each service to find additional pros and cons. For example, the pricing model is very different on just these four services (not to mention other photo backup apps). Take Apple iCloud. It’s very well known, but it provides just five gigabytes of free storage to start for those with Apple devices, and just one GB if you don’t own one. For more space, you’ll pay a monthly fee: $0.99/month (50 GB), $2.99/month (200 GB), or $9.99/month (two terabytes). Apple lets you share storage space on the 200-GB and two-TB plans with your family. If you’re accustomed to Apple devices (and the service integrates nicely with Apple products) and are willing to splurge for a monthly fee, iCloud might serve your needs. But if you own an Android device, it might not be the best solution. By contrast, you get free, unlimited photo storage on Google Photos, allowing you to automatically back up all images from your phone, computer and other devices. Google also recently updated its app for desktop computers, which now can automatically upload photos directly into Google Photos when transferring images from your camera to your computer, which is very convenient. However, Google Photos has limitations as well. If you shoot photos with a resolution larger than 16 megapixels, they’ll be downsized, which some photographers find unacceptable. At this time, smartphones mostly capture 12- or 16-megapixel photos, which won’t be affected, but some models already exceed that limit, as do many digital cameras. Both Amazon Prime Photos and Dropbox have their pros and cons, too. If you have an Amazon Prime account, Prime Photos can be a great option, since, like Google Photos, you get free, unlimited storage, which includes the ability to store RAW images, which are those high quality files for photo editing on an image editor. But you need to pay for an Amazon Prime account. Dropbox has long been a popular backup option for many photographers; it is easy to use and works well on many platforms, but you get only two GB of free storage, and additional storage is pricey ($9.99/month or $99/year for one TB). For serious photographers who shoot lots of photos, there are additional options: Some shutterbugs splurge for robust photo-organizing software packages, including apps by ACDSee, Mylio and Adobe, which, for a fee, include online cloud storage. In fact, Adobe recently updated its professional photo organizer, Lightroom, and expanded its cloud-storage plans, which are available at various prices. As the name implies, external hard drives, which range in price from $50 (one to two TB) to $350 and up (eight TB), are like the storage that’s built into your computers, except they’re connected externally. Most hook up via a USB connection, although there are other methods. (For instance, network attached storage, or NAS, drives, connect via an Ethernet line to your home or office network.) As with your internal drive, there are many ways to transfer, copy, or sync your photos. You can also automate your backup using your computer’s operating system, the external hard-drive’s software, or a third-party backup software app or service. If you need suggestions for a good external hard drive, Wirecutter, the New York Times product-review site, has a roundup of options at different sizes and price points here. Our personal library of images generally doesn’t end with just our digital photos. Many of us also own precious prints, photo albums, slides and negatives, some of which can be decades old. To back them up properly, you’ll need to digitize or scan them. There are scanning services available where you can mail or drop off your prints and negatives and get digital versions created for you, although some can be pricey. You can also scan them yourself if you have an all-in-one printer that can scan, or a dedicated scanner. If you’re not looking for a high-end scan, though, use Google’s PhotoScan mobile app, which lets you use your phone’s camera like a scanner to capture photos, even if they’re framed and behind glass. (The app is pretty effective at eliminating glare and reflection.) For slides and negatives, though, you’ll need to scan them yourself, or have a service process them for you. Whatever backup system you eventually select, whether it’s just an online solution or a combination of several services and hard drives, it’s important to monitor the system. Be sure to periodically check it and make sure it’s backing up your photos correctly. Consider these tips from Jill Duffy, Ami Vitale and myself, when backing up your images: • Label folders: “If your backup system lets you, sort your photos into folders, and label them by occasion, date, or both,” Ms. Duffy says. • Keep a folder of your favorite shots: Ms. Vitale recommends storing your best images in a folder on your computer’s desktop, and, periodically, creating a special backup of just these images. But, she says, you’ll need to take a little time and edit your shots after each trip or event, and choose only your best shots. • Add context: “Photographers should be diligent and write captions for their photos,” Ms. Vitale says, since it’s easy to forget important facts about your subjects. “The story behind your image is essential, and can be just as important as the picture itself.” • Start by backing up today’s photo: In Ms. Duffy’s book, “Get Organized,” she suggests ignoring past photos, since backing them up can be an overwhelming task. “Rather than organize your entire photo collection, consider just putting in place a workflow and system of organizing them moving forward.” • Test your backup periodically: When your backup system is in place, be sure to test it, at least every month or every other month. For instance, try restoring a small group of photos from the past. Also, check your backup service to see if it includes a feature that lets you test a backup after it’s complete.