 Lewd comments. Groping. Requests for dates and propositions for sex. We talked to more than 60 restaurant servers about their experiences with sexual harassment from customers, and pulled it together for a project that examined the way servers balance the abusive behavior they endure against their need for tips.  Then we heard from you. When we published the article last Monday, we asked readers to tell us their own experiences in restaurants, either as diners or servers. More than 1,200 people responded in a little more than 24 hours.  We heard from a woman whose customer offered to pay her college tuition if she would have an affair with him, and a senior in high school who told of men hitting on her in front of their children as she waited on them.  And of course there was the story about the server who poured a strawberry daiquiri over a customer’s head after he kept running his hand up her skirt. But we’ll get back to that.  As we combed through the responses, we were struck by the sheer number of readers who had their own harrowing stories of mistreatment while working as servers or bartenders. Just like the scores of workers we interviewed for the article, many described the pressure to tolerate bad behavior in order to earn tips.  Especially telling: Many of you said the money made it worthwhile. Some respondents urged their fellow servers to stand up for themselves, even if it meant losing out financially.  But a few current or former servers questioned the severity of the problem, saying they had always worked in restaurants that did not tolerate misconduct from customers. And one reader, Ella Watson, a college student who works in a bar and grill near her campus in Norman, Okla., embraced the practice of flirting for tips. Some male readers also felt exploited sexually (hugging a customer at a gay club in West Hollywood could mean the difference between a big tip and an insulting one, a bartender said), but other men wrote in about harassment that was humiliating even though it was not sexual.  Diners weighed in too, with many expressing the need to respect the fact that servers were at work by keeping interactions professional. A few told of debating with themselves whether it would be appropriate to leave a business card or invite a server on a date. Some decided against it, but one reader said he was glad he decided to speak up.  One man flipped the equation, expressing annoyance at being on the receiving end of servers trying to engage him too much in an effort to extract tips.  Like Mr. Turatti, many diners said they always tipped at least 20 percent, though some set the baseline at 15 percent. Former servers said they often left more. “I’ve been there,” was a sentiment we heard again and again.  Other readers questioned why tipping existed at all and suggested that everyone — diner and employees — would be better off without it. This was an issue our article explored, looking at restaurants that had adopted no-tipping policies. But the experiences were mixed, and many of the servers we interviewed were against eliminating tipping because they were convinced it would hurt their bottom line. Many of the reader responses echoed that reasoning.  Diners also told poignant stories about realizing how much their tips meant to servers. One reader, Sheri Albrecht of Walford, Iowa, recounted a time when she and her husband had dined with another couple, who picked up the check but left a paltry tip.  Now about that strawberry daiquiri. It was poured in a bar in eastern Oregon in 1982. The server, Kelly Andersson, had been delivering drinks to a corner booth with about six people in it, and one of the men ran his hand up her leg and under her skirt. She said his friends started piling cash onto her tray to reward her, then had a better idea: they started grabbing the perpetrator’s money. She made about $125 from that one episode, she estimated. There’s a postscript to her story. The episode, it turned out, had become legend. And the old man recounted it to Ms. Andersson, telling her about the time a jerk had been doused with a margarita.