 Q. I plan to start really organizing my digital photos on my computer. I would like to be able to sort them by location taken and search for pictures based on who or what is in the photo. Are there photo-editing programs that can also catalog a large personal picture collection? A. Several programs that import and edit digital photographs can also organize the pictures by face, place or even keywords. Depending on the computer and photo tools you already use — and how much more you want to do with your photo library — you may not need to buy or install anything new. If you just want to search for general subjects, like “cars” or “dogs,” Google Photos for the desktop browser and Android and iOS systems can often recognize pictures containing those items without your having to add keywords yourself. The system is not foolproof, but the Google Photos search tool can be quite accurate on some subjects. Google Photos and other programs can perform basic face recognition to label people in your pictures. If you snapped the photo on a smartphone with the location services feature enabled, the photo program can automatically pinpoint the place it was taken. You can also add coordinates manually. If you want to do really fine-tuned searches for photos that may have multiple subjects in the frame, consider a program that lets you create and apply your own keywords. You must take the time to add the keywords to the picture files as you go, but with the right keywords applied, you can do broad searches for photos in your collection containing the keyword “car” — or perform a much more targeted search through your files for photos containing “car” and “1966” and “Ford” and “Mustang” in the keywords field. Apple’s Photos app for the Mac and iOS devices supports manually entered keywords and can automatically recognize people and certain objects in pictures. You can also search for people and places pulled from the software face-recognition software and location services feature. Flickr, Yahoo’s free online photo-sharing site, also supports keyword tags on pictures you upload. The site also has a “Magic View” feature that tries to automatically group images together according to subjects. You can find plenty of desktop programs for Windows for in-depth tagging and sorting of your pictures. Digital photography sites have roundups of the latest programs and features, including ADSee Photo Studio Standard ($90; free trial available). Aside from its Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Photoshop Elements tools for image editing, Adobe makes several programs for organizing and managing your picture collection, including the free Adobe Bridge application. If you want more photo-editing tools alongside the keyword tags and other organizational features, the company’s Adobe Lightroom Classic CC for desktop ($10 a month) or Adobe Lightroom CC for desktop, mobile and web (prices start at $10 a month with Adobe Photoshop CC and 20 gigabytes of cloud storage included) are options. The existence of two Lightroom programs can be confusing, but Adobe’s site further explains the difference between the versions here.