 WASHINGTON — The United States is pushing to quickly conclude a revised North American Free Trade Agreement during talks in Washington this week, but another, potentially insurmountable obstacle looms: getting such a deal through Congress. A revised deal with Canada and Mexico will need approval from the Senate and House, which, under current trade laws, must pass the revamped agreement by a simple majority. But Republicans may balk at some of the provisions, including overhauls to investment rules that help companies invest abroad, while Democrats, who have long criticized the existing deal, may argue that President Trump’s changes do not go far enough. Congressional approval has become the latest sticking point in the revamp of a trade pact that, after eight months of fractious negotiations, could finally be in reach. Ministers from Canada, Mexico and the United States were scheduled to temporarily wrap up talks on Thursday, but lower-level negotiators could continue meeting into next week. The three countries are making progress on the rules for manufacturing automobiles in North America, but they have yet to near consensus on other contentious parts, like methods for settling trade disputes, or patents for medicines, people briefed on the discussions said. Deadlines are now looming to complete negotiations and the administration is seeking to conclude a final deal in the next two to six weeks, before presidential elections in Mexico and midterm congressional elections in the United States. Administration officials want to announce an agreement in principle before next week, when Robert Lighthizer, the top trade adviser, is scheduled to travel to China for trade talks. That is also when a temporary exemption that the United States has granted Canada and Mexico from new steel and aluminum tariffs officially expires. A quick agreement would give the administration sufficient time to make the necessary notifications to Congress that are required under current law while still having the Republican-controlled Congress vote on the deal in a lame-duck session — after midterm elections that could allow Democrats to reclaim the House and potentially the Senate, but before newly elected lawmakers take their seats. That may not be so easy. On Wednesday, lawmakers from both parties expressed skepticism about the Trump administration’s negotiations and whether any deal that Mr. Trump reaches could be approved by the current Congress. “I think there is a real mixed feeling about trade and some of the things the president has said, most of all, on the Republican side,” said Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois. “They’re not comfortable with some of the talk on tariffs and trade wars and so forth, so I think all of us will look at it with some skepticism.” Republicans have urged the president to drop many of his signature proposals for revising the deal, including adding a “sunset clause” that would allow Nafta to automatically expire, and getting rid of investment rules that the administration says promote outsourcing to other nations. Democrats, for their part, have urged the president to incorporate tougher provisions on labor rights in Mexico. Canadian and Mexican negotiators say that the quickest path to reaching an agreement is for the United States to abandon some of its most controversial proposals, which major business and farmers also oppose. In recent weeks, Mr. Lighthizer has told members of Congress that he could take a more aggressive and potentially painful approach to ensure that the president’s deal is passed. He has warned congressional Republicans about the possibility of withdrawing from Nafta altogether if they refuse to vote for it — which, until recently, the Trump administration had used to force concessions from Canada and Mexico. Those warnings have not been well received among congressional Republicans. Farm and border-state Republicans are already deeply unsettled by the president’s tariff threats on China, which has resulted in a tit-for-tat by Beijing that would hurt exports from their communities, including agricultural products like soybeans, pork and wheat. They would probably rebel if he moved to undermine Nafta, which has become a crucial economic engine for those states. But Mr. Trump has frequently mused about ripping up Nafta without actually following through — so many lawmakers are reluctant to panic just yet. Some have urged the president to move prudently, reminding him how many of his voters live in agriculture states, but more of them are reluctant to confront him and simply hope he backs off those threats as he has on other issues. Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas and majority whip, made clear that the Senate would not simply rubber-stamp any deal that Mr. Trump’s trade team strikes and lamented that the administration had kept lawmakers largely in the dark. “I regret that the administration has not been communicating very well what they are negotiating and I hope they come up with something that we can pass out of here, because I think Nafta is pretty important,” Mr. Cornyn said. If the president were to carry through on a threat to withdraw from the deal to force a vote in Congress, lawmakers could fight back, congressional aides said. Lawmakers could pass legislation that alters the president’s authority to impose tariffs and other trade measures — or create laws to more clearly define the process for the United States to leave trade agreements. Top Republicans in the House also expressed trepidation on Wednesday about a Nafta resolution. Representative Kevin Brady, Republican of Texas and the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said that the likelihood of such a deal passing in the House “depends on the quality of the agreement.” Mr. Brady, a staunch ally of Mr. Trump during the tax overhaul last year, has been critical of the president’s tariff threats. He said that he had encouraged Mr. Trump to deliver an agreement that bolstered American jobs, exports and economic growth. “We’ve heard different summaries of where they might be headed and we’re weighing in,” Mr. Brady said. “We’re hopeful and cautiously optimistic.”