 Q. Now that I’ve figured out how to turn on closed captions, how can I make the text for them bigger? A. Many of the same programs and devices that offer closed captions for videos have settings to change the type size, color and other aspects of the text on the screen. However, if you are using closed captions with your television provider’s set-top box, check with its customer-service department to see if modifying the text size is possible — and, if so, how to find the settings on your specific equipment. (Some systems may not allow modification, but Comcast Xfinity, the Dish Network, Verizon FiOS and Frontier FiOS are among those providers with instructions on their sites. TiVo has them, too.) On video-streaming boxes like the Apple TV or one of Roku’s many models, use the remote to navigate your way to the home screen’s Settings area and look for Accessibility. Select Captions and then look for a Style menu where you can adjust text size, color, background and more; the Apple TV also lets you create your own new caption style. On Apple’s iOS devices, you can adjust the look of the closed captions by opening the Settings icon, going to General and then Accessibility to Subtitles &amp; Caption, and tapping Style. On a Mac, open the System Preferences icon from the desktop dock, click Accessibility and then select Captions on the left side of the box to see the style options. To increase the type size and make other changes to closed-captioned video on a Windows 10 computer, go to the Start menu and Settings, open Ease of Access and then select Closed Captions on the left side of the box. Android users should open Settings and then Accessibility and Captions to see similar options. Many online video apps have caption-style settings of their own, including DirecTV Now and Netflix. YouTube, which has automatically added captions to more than one billion videos since 2009, recently announced that it was putting automatic captions on live-streamed clips. If you do not see how to change the closed captions in the app that you use, check its help guide.