 Kevin Spacey is out. Diane Lane and Greg Kinnear are in. The sixth and final season of “House of Cards” will introduce new characters as it tries to move past a sexual misconduct scandal that put the Netflix series in peril and forced out its biggest star. Mr. Spacey, who played the central character, Frank Underwood, a ruthless politician who becomes president, was shown the door amid allegations of sexual misconduct last year. Production for the new season, after a three-month hiatus, resumed on Tuesday. Netflix did not disclose what roles Ms. Lane or Mr. Kinnear will play other than that they will be brother and sister. Mr. Kinnear, 54, and Ms. Lane, 53, are both Academy Award nominees. Robin Wright, the co-star of “House of Cards,” will be at the center of the final season. The return to production ends a three-month odyssey that began shortly after The New York Times published an investigation detailing sexual harassment and assault allegations against the Hollywood producer  Harvey Weinstein and a national reckoning on sexual harassment began in earnest. In October, after Anthony Rapp, an actor, accused Mr. Spacey of inappropriate sexual behavior, Netflix announced that the next season of “House of Cards” would be its last, and suspended production not long after. Mr. Spacey apologized to Mr. Rapp, but numerous other allegations against him emerged. Though “House of Cards” is past its peak in terms of cultural relevance, it is a landmark for the streaming service. It gave Netflix a bold entry into the TV landscape when it debuted in 2013, and in the five years since, the tech giant has upended the TV industry. Netflix said it would spend up to $8 billion in content this year, dwarfing all rivals. Other tech companies like Apple, Facebook and Google are now springing into gear and investing hundreds of millions of dollars to create their own original programming. Netflix has paid a price for sexual misconduct scandals. The streaming service said last month that it had taken a $39 million write-down for unreleased programming, which David Wells, its chief financial officer, said was related to the “societal reset around sexual harassment.” Netflix had been planning a movie starring Mr. Spacey about Gore Vidal, the writer, and a stand-up special with Louis C.K., the comedian, who was also accused of sexual misconduct. Both have been tossed away. The final season of “House of Cards” is expected to be eight episodes, down from the usual 13, and may be released this year.