 Good Tuesday. Here’s what we’re watching: • What will Apple do with all that cash? • What happens after the imported metal tariff delay? • Why C.E.O.s might need to be more outspoken on social issues. • How the T-Mobile C.E.O.’s success might be a mixed blessing. Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here. That’s the sum Apple intends to spend on buying back its own stock. It sounds like a lot, but Apple has a huge stock market value and investors have grown accustomed to it repurchasing a large portion of its stock. Here’s how it stacks up. If Apple spent $100 billion on its shares at the current stock price, it would buy back 571 million shares, equivalent to 11 percent of the company’s total shares outstanding. Would investors be impressed with an 11 percent reduction? It depends on how quickly Apple carries it out. In the last five years, Apple’s shares outstanding have fallen by 24 percent. In theory, then, if Apple completed the latest program in two years, it would be more or less on track with that five-year period. But Apple may move more quickly. In the three months through the end of March, Apple bought back $23.5 billion of shares, an unusually large sum by the company’s standards. Executives are sometimes reluctant to repurchase shares if they look overvalued. And Apple’s C.F.O., Luca Maestri, said on a conference call Tuesday that Apple wanted its buybacks to be “thoughtful” and “efficient.” But he also said he wanted them to be “fast.” - Peter Eavis Investors expected Apple to announce a large share repurchase program heading into this quarter’s earnings, and the iPhone maker didn’t disappoint. Apple announced a new $100 billion buyback program. The coffers of corporate America are straining under the weight of spare cash. And none more than Apple. Apple was forced to pay taxes on more than $250 billion held overseas as part of the tax overhaul President Trump signed into law late last year. And investors are reaping some of the rewards from the windfall. Apple bought back $32.9 billion in stock during the first six months of its fiscal year, according to just announced results. Last quarter alone, Apple repurchased $22.8 billion in shares, a record for any company in any quarter, according to S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices data. Shares of Apple are up 4 percent after the iPhone maker’s results beat expectations and it announced a $100 billion buyback program. Here’s a look at the numbers: • Apple reported a net income of $13.82 billion for its fiscal second quarter, up 25 percent from a year ago. • Earnings per share came in at $2.73, above analysts expectations of $2.67 per share. • Revenue increased 16 percent to $61.1 billion. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected sales of 60.82 billion. • Revenue from its services business hit a record of $9.2 billion. • Apple sold 52.2 million iPhones in the quarter, up 2.9 percent from a year ago. • Revenue from iPhone sales increased 14 percent from a year ago to $38.03 billion. • The average selling price of an iPhone was $728, up from $655 a year ago but down from $796 last quarter. • Apple’s cash pile shrank to $267.2 billion from $285.1 billion at the end of its fiscal first quarter. Snap’s recent redesign of its Snapchat app didn’t go over well with its users. Now it is impacting its results. Nellie Bowles of the NYT writes: Evan Spiegel, Snap’s chief executive, cited Snapchat’s redesign as a major factor for the disappointing performance. “A change this big to existing behavior comes with some disruption,” he said, referring later to “headwinds from the redesign.” President Trump’s decision on Monday to hold off on imposing steel and aluminum tariffs on a number of countries came as the United States is engaged in a separate trade battle with China and is negotiating changes to the North American Free Trade Agreement. From the time the tariffs on steel and aluminum were announced in late February, they seemed the least promising part of Mr. Trump’s combative trade policy. Not only were the measures directed in part at allies, the European Union and Canada among them, the administration convinced few with their argument that imports of the two metals were threatening national security. And when announcing the tariffs, the Trump administration immediately granted temporary exemptions to certain countries. The move suggested loopholes and concessions might be available, an impression that will likely persist after Mr. Trump on Monday extended negotiations with Mexico, Canada and the European Union for 30 days. The new deadline may help push along Nafta negotiations with Mexico and Canada, but the European Union is becoming a big problem for Mr. Trump’s trade agenda. The bloc has gained another reprieve from the steel and aluminum tariffs and apparently has given up nothing. That has likely put the European Union in a stronger position, which it may now use in negotiations with the United States to end the tariffs threat. The bloc could use an opening to try forge a narrower version of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. But such an outcome would take many months to finalize and probably would not look like a win for Mr. Trump’s “America First” agenda. And the European Union’s stance has hurt Mr. Trump’s tariffs strategy in another crucial way. The tariffs were said to be a cudgel to persuade allies to back the United States in its trade actions against China. The European Union, which shares some of the United States’ frustrations with China’s trade practices, may eventually back Mr. Trump against China. But the longer the tensions between the European Union and the United States persist, the less likely it is that they align. Indeed, the divide the tariffs created between the United States and its allies, and Mr. Trump’s willingness to delay them, may be strengthening China’s resolve. The country’s trade negotiators are preparing to reject two major demands of the United States, for instance. Mr. Trump famously said trade wars are easy to win. But, as he is finding out, this is not the case when they are fought on three fronts at once. — Peter Eavis With his administration delaying tariffs on steel and aluminum from those partners by another 30 days, President Trump has so far avoided starting a multinational trade war with key allies. But is there any progress toward a permanent accord with them? And the delay poses a risk, per Ana Swanson of the NYT: The E.U. is still demanding a permanent exemption, and said the extension “prolongs market uncertainty.” Meanwhile, Beijing said it wouldn’t discuss two key trade demands — a $100 billion cut in the U.S.’s trade deficit with China and curbs on a $300 billion Chinese plan to invest in advanced tech like A.I. and electric cars — when a U.S. delegation arrives this week. Why: It now thinks it’s big enough to stand up to Washington. And Alibaba’s vice chairman, Joe Tsai, told CNBC that he viewed the spat between the U.S. and China as just “a temporary blip.” Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, introduced a new privacy tool, Clear History, ahead of social media company’s annual developer conference, F8. The new privacy control that allows people to essentially erasing what they have browsed on the site. “This is an example of the kind of control we think you should have,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote in a post on Facebook. “It’s something privacy advocates have been asking for — and we will work with them to make sure we get it right.” Erin Egan, Facebook’s chief privacy officer, said in a post that the tool was part of the company’s effort to “supercharge” its work related to privacy concerns. She signaled that the announcement was one of many connected to the issue that Facebook planned to make at the conference. When Sainsbury’s and Asda announced their deal to join forces, potentially creating the Britain’s biggest supermarket operator, the companies did the usual dance: Groceries would be cheaper, stores would stay open, employees would keep their jobs. Then Mike Coupe, the chief executive of Sainsbury’s, began to sing, The NYT’s Mark A. Walsh reports. Waiting to be interviewed for the British channel ITV News, Mr. Coupe, presumably unaware that the cameras were rolling, undercut the official line with an impromptu performance. Intoning lines from a piece called “The Gold Diggers’ Song (We’re in the Money)” was probably not the best way to assuage concerns that shareholders might be making hay on the back of higher prices and job cuts. The song was first written for a 1933 film, but is perhaps most famously used in the musical “42nd Street.” Mr. Coupe quickly apologized. “This was an unguarded moment trying to compose myself before a TV interview,” he said. “It was an unfortunate choice of song, from the musical ‘42nd Street’ which I saw last year, and I apologize if I have offended anyone.” The reaction on Twitter was predictably acerbic. Company chiefs increasingly wade into political issues like gun control and climate change. But a poll suggests they may not be moving fast enough. From the latest Edelman Trust Barometer, which polled 33,000 people across 28 markets worldwide and will be released at the Milken Institute Global Conference this morning: • 64 percent say C.E.O.s should lead change rather than waiting for government action. • 56 percent “have no respect for C.E.O.s who remain silent on important issues.” • All age groups expect C.E.O. to be personally visible in explaining a company’s purpose and vision. He took charge of a company with a doubtful future, after regulators had blocked a sale to one of his former employers, AT&amp;T. And he turned it into a credible insurgent in the American wireless wars, with the money and power to buy Sprint for $26.5 billion. He also became the industry’s most colorful executive. Yet Mr. Legere’s success might make the Sprint deal harder — because, as the research analyst Craig Moffett told Michael, it “proves that regulators’ opposition to the two companies’ effort to merge in 2014 was justified.” Fear that the transaction would be blocked made yesterday Sprint shares’ worst day in a year. Another fear, of Chinese dominance in 5G, provides a primary argument for the deal. On AT&amp;T and Time Warner: Their $85.4 billion merger plan is now in the hands of a federal judge. • Among Robert Mueller’s proposed questions for President Trump: What discussions did you have during the campaign regarding Russian sanctions? Why did you fire James Comey? What efforts were made to reach out to Mr. Flynn about seeking immunity or possible pardon? (NYT) • Nearly 200 Democrats are suing Mr. Trump over payments to his companies from foreign governments. (Bloomberg) • Paul Manafort is being sued, too, over a failed deal involving his former son-in-law. And he has asked the judge in his criminal case to investigate leaks of grand jury information. Jan Koum, an executive who also sat on Facebook’s board, had grown increasingly concerned about its collection of user data. More from Elizabeth Dwoskin of the WaPo: What will Mr. Koum do next? Spend more time with his car collection, for starters: Elsewhere in Facebook: As the company’s F8 developer conference opens this week, some developers are rankled by sudden change to its privacy policies. “Facebook threw us under the bus,” one told the NYT. Elsewhere in privacy: Your concerns probably reflect your politics. A demonstration against Moscow’s effort to block Telegram became a protest against Vladimir Putin. • The California Supreme Court made it harder to classify workers as contractors, a blow to Uber and other start-ups. (NYT) • Autonomy’s former financial chief was found guilty of fraud around its sale to Hewlett-Packard. (WSJ) • Are hacked companies allowed to retaliate? (The New Yorker) • The ride-hailing giant Didi Chuxing and Volkswagen are close to agreeing on a joint venture in China. (WSJ) • And Didi’s battle with Meituan is escalating as they prepare to go public. (The Information) • What happened when Airbnb took control of a Florida apartment complex. (Bloomberg) Before joining the Trump administration as communications director, he quit the investment firm, having struck a deal to sell it to HNA of China. But the White House job lasted 10 days, and now the deal with HNA is off, too, so he’ll come back as co-managing partner. Why? Blame Cfius, the federal panel that reviews foreign takeovers of U.S. companies for national security concerns. Elsewhere in deals: Boeing will buy KLX, which makes plane parts, for about $3.2 billion. Yesterday’s Merger Monday could net investment bankers $330 million in fees. Can Moelis &amp; Company outlive Ken Moelis? Demand for the I.P.O. of Ping An’s health care unit is weaker than expected. She helped the investigations that took down the former movie mogul. Now she’s suing him for damaging her acting career, saying he spread lies after she rejected his sexual requests. (One movie she says she might otherwise have been in: “The Lord of the Rings.”) More from Brooks Barnes of the NYT: Meanwhile, The Weinstein Company’s assets look likely to go to the hedge fund Lantern Capital — because no one else bid. Elsewhere in harassment news:  Meet Tina Tchen, who is building the Time’s Up Legal Defense Fund. Roy Moore has sued four of his accusers for defamation. Three associates sued the law firm Morrison &amp; Foerster, alleging discrimination after they became pregnant. It’s harder to fight sexual harassment at smaller companies. • The American Petroleum Institute reportedly wants Mike Sommers, previously chief of staff to the former House Speaker John Boehner, as its next C.E.O. (Bloomberg) • Charlie Kindel stepped down as the head of Amazon’s smart home division, saying he needed to “relax and goof off.” (The Information) • Blackstone is expanding in the nearly $300 billion U.S. market for subprime car loans. (FT) • Panasonic agreed to pay $280 million in the U.S. to settle a bribery case, sending its shares down more than 2 percent. (FT) • California is preparing for a fight over car emissions. (NYT) • McKinsey is big in bankruptcy, yet discloses fewer potential conflicts of interest than other advisers. (WSJ) • BP’s chief executive, Bob Dudley, fled Moscow in a former post because blood tests suggested he was being slowly poisoned, according to a former employee. (Telegraph) • San Diego’s City Council is expected to vote on whether to let residents buy power in bulk, bypassing the local utility. (NYT) • A new book, “Big Is Beautiful,” questions the virtues of small businesses. (NYT) • Nearly 3,000 freelance journalists have won a $9 million settlement in a 17-year class action against big publishers. (NYT) We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.