 Good Wednesday. Here’s what we’re watching: • Mark Zuckerberg has broken his silence on the Cambridge Analytica crisis. • Why driverless cars are essential to Uber’s future. • Jerome Powell’s first Federal Reserve meeting as chairman. • Pete Peterson, the co-founder of Blackstone and a former chairman of Lehman Brothers, has died. • Facebook and other tech companies might need a new privacy regulator. • How companies are pressing for tariff exemptions. Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here. Facebook’s chief executive posted a statement on his Facebook page, saying he was taking action to prevent people’s data on the social network from being misused. “We have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can’t then we don’t deserve to serve you,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. “I’ve been working to understand exactly what happened and how to make sure this doesn’t happen again.” Here are the steps the company is taking to address the issue: • “We will investigate all apps that had access to large amounts of information before we changed our platform to dramatically reduce data access in 2014, and we will conduct a full audit of any app with suspicious activity.” • “We will restrict developers’ data access even further to prevent other kinds of abuse.” • “We want to make sure you understand which apps you’ve allowed to access your data. In the next month, we will show everyone a tool at the top of your News Feed with the apps you’ve used and an easy way to revoke those apps’ permissions to your data.” Mr. Zuckerberg had drawn criticism for his response to how Cambridge Analytica improperly obtained data on 50 million Facebook users. In the days since the news first broke this weekend, he had not commented publicly on the crisis. That contrasts with how other tech chief executives have addressed crises at their firms. Kevin Roose and Sheera Frenkel of the NYT report: So why did it take so long for Mr. Zuckerberg to respond? Kate Losse, an early Facebook employee and Mr. Zuckerberg’s former speechwriter, told the NYT: “My guess is that what is giving Zuckerberg pause at this point is the question of how to acknowledge and explain this state of affairs while at the same time mitigating the concerns that will come from people finally understanding how this all worked.” Peter Eavis’s take: There was something missing from Mark Zuckerberg’s response – a full explanation of why Facebook took so long to disclose the misuse of its data. As Mr. Zuckerberg noted, Facebook found out in 2015 that Aleksandr Kogan had violated company policies by sharing user data with Cambridge Analytica. Facebook users might ask why the abuse wasn’t disclosed at the time. Often it has taken pressure from outsiders to get Facebook to reveal abuses of its network. An alternative approach would have been for Facebook to proactively disclose as much information as possible about the wrongdoing. Facebook users would most likely welcome a strong commitment from Mr. Zuckerberg to do just that. The Federal Reserve, as widely expected, raised interest rates on Wednesday by a quarter of a percentage point. The bigger questions were about the strength of the economy and pace of future rate increases. On those matters, the Federal Reserve has expressed more confidence in the strength of the economy. Dot plot: Fed officials signaled they would raise rates at a quicker pace over the next three years. Policymakers now expect to hike rates three times this year, three times in 2019 and twice in 2020. At its December meeting, policymakers expected three rate hikes this year, but just two in 2019. Economic projections: Officials raised their median estimates for economic growth this year to 2.7 percent, up from 2.5 percent in December. Fed policymakers also expect inflation to run above 2 percent by 2019 and 2020. Mr. Powell’s news conference: The new Fed chairman expressed optimism about the current economic picture and said officials were trying to strike a balance between raising rates too slowly or too quickly. “We’re trying to take that middle ground.” Mr. Powell left the door open to more or fewer than three increases this year, depending on economic conditions. “Like any set of forecasts, those forecasts will change over time,” he said. “It could change up. It could change down” On inflation, he added: “There is no sense in the data that we’re on the cusp of an acceleration of inflation. We have seen moderate increases in wages and price inflation. And we seem to be seeing more of that.” The answer has to do with car ownership. For years, Uber and its rivals have promoted the idea that people living in urban areas will turn to Uber to get to and from work and to run errands rather than buy a car. If Uber can become an alternative to car ownership, that would greatly increase its potential market. A study last year from the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute, Texas A&amp;M Transportation Institute, and Columbia University suggested that people might make the switch. But for people give up their cars, the cost of using Uber would most likely have to fall far below current levels. The need for this drop in costs came up when Dara Khosrowshahi, the C.E.O. of Uber, recently sat down for an interview with David Solomon, president and C.O.O. of Goldman Sachs. Here’s the write-up of the autonomous car portion of their conversation in a recent Goldman note to clients: The pedestrian fatality in Arizona is perhaps Dara Khosrowshahi’s first major test as Uber’s C.E.O., leaving him with a difficult choice: keep spending on a technology that Uber considers essential to its future, or dial back to reduce risks ahead of an I.P.O.? Investigators are also looking into whether the victim’s actions — suddenly stepping onto a darkened street — could limit Uber’s liability. Toyota has paused its self-driving tests; Ford and G.M. have yet to do so. Separately, Uber has hired Tammy Albarran from Covington and Burling as its deputy general counsel, replacing Angela Padilla. Elsewhere in tech: The Russian cybersecurity company Kaspersky Labs has reportedly exposed a U.S. cyberespionage operation focused on ISIS. Expect a merger frenzy in lithium. Expedia’s Orbitz disclosed a breach that affects about 880,000 payment cards. And Amazon has surpassed Alphabet as the second-biggest publicly traded company by market value. The electric car maker’s investors backed the board’s proposal to grant Elon Musk, its C.E.O., stock options valued at $2.6 billion, Bloomberg reports. The stock options won’t vest unless a set of ambitious financial goals are met. “Mr. Musk will earn one-12th of the options every time Tesla hits a pair of goals: one tied to its market value and the other linked to either revenue or earnings excluding certain charges. For Musk to get all the options, Tesla would have to become worth $650 billion — more than Facebook Inc. — and produce more revenue than Procter &amp; Gamble Co.,” Bloomberg reports. The billionaire — whose career highlights include being C.E.O. of a major industrial company at 36, serving in the Nixon administration, running Lehman Brothers, cofounding the Blackstone Group and doggedly arguing for reducing the U.S. deficit — died yesterday. Mr. Peterson was always self-deprecating, once describing himself to the NYT as a “kind of a closet, second-rate intellectual.” And this is from a 2007 Lunch with the FT: Courtesy of our colleague Tom Kaplan: European antitrust regulators conditionally approved Bayer’s $56 billion acquisition of its American rival, Monsanto, today, an important step for the deal as the agrochemical sector continues to consolidate. The deal is still awaiting approval from American regulators, with the German chemicals giant saying on Wednesdaythat it was “working closely” with the Justice Department and other United States authorities. Bayer hopes to close the transaction by the end of the second quarter. To win approval of European regulators, the companies said they would sell a variety of businesses, including agreeing to sell parts of Bayer’s crop science business to BASF for about $7 billion in October. Bayer has committed to sell its entire vegetable seeds business as part of its concessions, European regulators said in a news release on Thursday. Bayer previously said it was in exclusive talks with BASF about the sale of that business. — Chad Bray Investors have sliced off $50 billion off the company’s market capitalization. The Federal Trade Commission is investigating whether it has violated a privacy agreement. Britain’s data protection watchdog has warned Facebook away from its Cambridge Analytica investigation. And a founder of WhatsApp urged his Twitter followers to delete their accounts. Given all that, Paul Ford asks in Bloomberg Businessweek whether the U.S. needs a digital protection agency, comparing its potential scope to that of the Environmental Protection Agency. Mark Zuckerberg, silent so far, is expected to speak about Facebook’s latest scandal within the next 24 hours, according to Axios. Critics’ corner • Sandy Parakilas, a former Facebook employee involved in its apps platform, writes: “Facebook has systematically failed to enforce its own policies. The only solution is external oversight.” (WaPo) • Shira Ovide says the damage may be permanent. (Gadfly) • Nick Thompson and Fred Vogelstein say Facebook may have taken the wrong lesson from past scandals: “All of those crises have passed with limited damage. And perhaps that’s why the company appears to have underestimated the power of the storm clouds moving in.” (Wired) • John Gapper writes, “Facebook has never implemented safeguards that match the power of the data machine it created.” (FT) Elsewhere in big tech:  Go inside “Zucktown,” the neighborhood Facebook is developing in Menlo Park, Calif. Google is investing $300 million to support journalism, even though it and Facebook inevitably hurt publishers to some degree. And Canada, South Korea and Australia are becoming worried about Huawei. At the Group of 20’s meeting in Buenos Aires, finance ministers from France, Argentina, South Korea and elsewhere peppered Steven Mnuchin with requests for exemptions from President Trump’s forthcoming tariffs on imported metal. The U.S. Treasury secretary said, “This is all about free and fair and reciprocal trade.” The problem: The White House hasn’t said exactly what would qualify a country for an exemption (it has made vague references to protecting national security and reducing bilateral trade deficits). Meanwhile, the White House is ready to announce more tariffs and limits on Chinese investments as soon as tomorrow — risking a trade war that it can’t win on its own, Michael Schuman argues on Bloomberg View. Elsewhere in trade: The White House’s efforts to renegotiate Nafta now include a bid to limit warning labels on junk food, according to the NYT. • Congress continues to discuss its $1.3 trillion spending bill. The deadline is Friday. (Bloomberg) • President Trump welcomed Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman to the White House, reaffirming his support of Saudi Arabia’s de facto ruler. (NYT) • Citigroup’s C.E.O. Michael Corbat said he was unaware of a pending loan to Kushner Companies when he met with Jared Kushner. (Bloomberg) • Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model who claims to have had an affair with Mr. Trump, sued to be released from a legal agreement restricting her ability to speak. (NYT) • Mr. Trump defeated a watchdog group’s lawsuit that challenged his administration’s use of self-destructing message apps like Confide and Signal. (Bloomberg) The latest (ugh, seriously) snowstorm barreling toward the Northeast has postponed the first day of oral arguments in the Justice Department’s lawsuit to block the $85.4 billion takeover of Time Warner. When the trial picks up again tomorrow, here’s what to expect, courtesy of Cecilia Kang of the NYT: roughly 60 witnesses, 519 exhibits from the Justice Department alone and at least six weeks of testimony. Key witnesses will include Randall Stephenson of AT&amp;T and Jeff Bewkes of Time Warner. Elsewhere in media: A Fox News analyst resigned from the network, calling it Trump propaganda. Bill O’Reilly is seeking dismissal of the defamation suit. And two books about Mike Pence’s pet bunny are duking it out on Amazon. He’s buying control of a distressed real-estate concern named Cloud Storage Systems for $150 million, and installing himself as C.E.O. In a statement, Mr. Kalanick said that part of the goal is to expand C.S.S.’s expansion into kitchens and retail space for on-demand services. (The deal took about a tenth of his liquid net worth, Bloomberg notes.) Mr. Kalanick’s successor at Uber, Dara Khosrowshahi, congratulated him on Twitter — and suggested the two companies might work together. Elsewhere in tech deals • Salesforce agreed to buy Mulesoft, whose software helps connect platforms and which went public only last year, for $6.5 billion in its biggest-ever acquisition. (Bloomberg) • Google has reportedly acquired the imaging start-up Lytro for about $40 million. (TechCrunch) • DJI, the Chinese drone giant, is reportedly in talks to raise money at a $15 billion valuation. (The Information) • CryptoKitties still exists, and has raised $12 million. (Bloomberg) • Nordstrom ended talks to sell itself to its founding family; the stumbling block was price. (Bloomberg) • Warren Buffett’s only major acquisition last year: 38 percent of the owner of Pilot Flying J truck stops, for $2.76 billion. (Bloomberg) • Starboard Value’s nominees for the board of the consumer products group Newell withdrew after it settled with Carl Icahn. (WSJ) • China’s Citic is reportedly in talks to invest in the embattled energy conglomerate CEFC. (FT) • General Dynamics has raised its takeover bid for CSRA to $41.25 a share in cash, to stave off a rival offer from CACI. (Reuters) • Vivendi has sold its 27 percent stake in the video game maker Ubisoft for €2 billion. (FT) • A coffee-shop meeting gone wrong reportedly led to Voce Capital Management’s proxy battle against the infant medical company Natus Medical. (WSJ) • Jordan Thomas left the S.E.C. not to join a big law firm, but to represent corporate whistle-blowers. That bet is paying off. (NYT) • Saying “sorry” is no longer enough to earn a lesser sentence, as Martin Shkreli learned, according to White Collar Watch. (NYT) • The Supreme Court ruled that I.P.O. class-action lawsuits can now be brought in state courts, in a blow to companies. (WSJ) • Gary Barber stepped down unexpectedly as C.E.O. of M.G.M. He recently renewed his contract there through 2022. (Hollywood Reporter) • William Voge stepped down as chairman of Latham &amp; Watkins after disclosing sexual communications with a woman unaffiliated with the law firm. (WSJ) • Lyft has hired Nilka Thomas from Google as its vice president of talent and inclusion. (TechCrunch) • Michigan State University’s endowment is trying to get ahead of divestment campaigns with four tests for whether to drop an investment. (Bloomberg) • The National Institutes of Health plans a genome-sequencing and health-tracking project involving a million people; some critics say it’s too big. The N.I.H. will also examine whether health officials violated federal policy when they met with alcohol companies to discuss funding a study on the benefits of moderate drinking. • James Packer, the Australian billionaire embroiled in a corruption scandal involving Israel’s prime minister, has resigned as director of Crown Resorts. (NYT) • The Equitable Building is getting a $50 million face-lift. (NYT) • United, which has had high-profile dog troubles, suspended its animal transport program. (NYT) • Top financial supervisors for the eurozone have told banks to keep planning for a Brexit without transition arrangements. (FT) • Munich prosecutors investigating the emissions-cheating scandal searched BMW’s headquarters. (NYT) • Venture capital funds are returning less to investors when they sell companies than private equity funds do, as a share of money raised. (WSJ) We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.