 LONDON — Over just three years, Katerra has grown from a start-up with an unusual approach to the construction industry into a company with $1.3 billion in bookings. Now it has drawn support from one of the biggest and most disruptive backers of start-ups around. Katerra plans to announce on Wednesday that it has raised $865 million in a new round of financing led by SoftBank’s Vision Fund, the nearly $100 billion investment vehicle that has shaken up the world of venture capital. It is the latest outsize bet by the Vision Fund, which has poured billions into start-ups, including WeWork, the virtual reality company Improbable and the indoor farming company Plenty. In Katerra, the Vision Fund and other investors — they include the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and Soros Fund Management — are backing a start-up that is approaching the $12 trillion construction industry in a new way. The company’s founders include Michael Marks, a former chief executive of the electronics company now known as Flex; Jim Davidson, a founder of Silver Lake, the technology investment firm; and Fritz H. Wolff, the executive chairman of the Wolff Company, the real estate private equity firm. Katerra, which has its headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif., is essentially a one-stop shop for buildings, from architectural design through the actual construction. It obtains the materials itself and creates components at its factory in Phoenix. It has formed a network of suppliers around the world. Not every project makes use of all of Katerra’s suite of offerings. The Union South Bay residential apartment complex in Carson, Calif., for example, is being built by Katerra from a design created by Architects Orange. The idea, according to Mr. Marks, is to approach construction more like a factory run by Toyota, which is known for efficient mass production, rather than the current method of assembling disparate components in a less organized fashion. The business model has similarities to that of the electronics industry, which Mr. Marks and one of the company’s biggest investors, Foxconn, know well. The idea is to not have every building be a one-off prototype, the company says. “It’s shocking how poorly things work,” Mr. Marks said of the construction industry in a telephone interview. He added, “There’s a lack of quality processes throughout the system.” By contrast, Katerra’s approach, he contends, allows clients to save money and erect buildings like offices and multifamily homes more quickly. While Katerra loses money now, Mr. Marks said that the company was on track to become profitable as soon as next year. That different approach had already drawn the interest of prominent investors like Foxconn; DFJ, the venture capital firm; and Louis Bacon, the hedge fund mogul. About four months ago, Katerra began talks on raising a new round of capital, and a number of connections — including Foxconn’s chief executive, Terry Gou, and Jerry Yang, the Yahoo co-founder — put the start-up’s leaders in touch with Masayoshi Son of SoftBank. “Katerra is leveraging the latest technologies to radically transform the way people build,” Jeffrey Housenbold, a managing partner at SoftBank Investment Advisers, said in a statement. As part of the investment, Mr. Housenbold and Adam Fisher of the Soros fund will join Katerra’s board. While Mr. Marks declined to comment on the valuation that this new round has bestowed upon Katerra, he said that it was a sizable step up from the roughly $1 billion of the previous round. The new money will allow Katerra to build yet more factories — up to four over the next few years — and finance more research and development, he added. Further down the line, Mr. Marks said, is an initial public offering. “Over time we expect that we might get offers, but this is intended to stay an independent company,” he said. “This will be a public company at some point.”