 British bank regulators on Friday fined James E. Staley, the chief executive of Barclays, over his attempt to unmask a whistle-blower within the bank. The bank, however, said it would continue to stand by its top executive, who has been tasked with bringing stability to the three-centuries-old institution after years of management turmoil. Barclays said that two British regulators, the Financial Conduct Authority and the Bank of England’s Prudential Regulation Authority, had fined Mr. Staley, though it did not disclose the amount. The regulators also required Barclays to submit reports on parts of its whistle-blowing program, the bank said, though it added that the regulators did not take any action against Barclays itself. But Barclays said the regulators did not demand that he resign, nor that he acted with a lack of integrity or was not fit to remain the bank’s chief executive. “The Barclays board continues to have unanimous confidence in Mr. Staley,” the bank said in a statement. The two regulators said in a brief statement that they had concluded their investigations and had issued “draft warning notices in respect to the C.E.O.,” but did not provide further details. The fine caps an awkward, yearlong chapter for Barclays. Despite its central role in the British economy, it has spent the last decade in almost constant tumult. Regulatory sanctions, a fraud investigation, and lackluster financial results have created a revolving door at the top: When Mr. Staley became chief executive in 2015, he was the bank’s fifth in just seven years. That may in fact have worked in his favor, by making the British authorities wary of causing additional disruption. Barclays had appeared to cement Mr. Staley’s future at the bank in February, handing him an annual bonus for 2017 of 1.07 million pounds, or about $1.5 million. Though less than the maximum he could have been awarded, the payout raised for Mr. Staley was nevertheless in addition to his annual salary of £2.35 million, and amounted to a vote of confidence in the executive. The annual salary is paid in cash and in shares. The whistle-blower investigation stemmed from Mr. Staley’s attempts in 2016 to learn the identity of a person who had penned anonymous letters to Barclays officials protesting a senior hire. The letters claimed that the new employee, an investment banker, had behaved erratically in a previous job at JPMorgan, according to people who were briefed on the documents, and suggested that made him unfit to work for Barclays. Barclays stood by its hiring. But Mr. Staley, who described the letters as a malicious smear attempt, could not let the matter go. Hoping to stop what he described in a note to employees as “harassment,” Mr. Staley asked executives whether he could try to identify the letter writer, said a person who was briefed on the matter at the time. He was warned off initially, according to a statement from the bank. After an internal reassessment of the hiring was completed, however, Mr. Staley directed Barclays’s internal security team to try to find the writer, the bank’s statement said. Their efforts failed. Then, early in 2017, an employee complained to the Barclays board about its whistle-blowing procedures, pointing out Mr. Staley’s reaction to the anonymous letter writer the prior summer. Barclays hired an outside law firm to investigate the episode, and the firm concluded that Mr. Staley had “honestly, but mistakenly” believed his unmasking attempt to be appropriate, according to the bank’s statement at the time. The authorities were notified, and, months later, the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority began their own inquiries.