 LONDON — Xavier Rolet, the chief executive of the London Stock Exchange Group, and Carsten Kengeter, his counterpart at Deutsche Börse, were preparing a year ago to combine two of Europe’s biggest stock exchange operators into a regional behemoth. The merger was ultimately blocked by regulators, and now both men are to leave their positions under a cloud. Mr. Rolet, who has led the London stock market operator since 2009, said on Wednesday that he would step down immediately, following a public fight between the exchange and a major investor over his planned departure at the end of next year. During his tenure, the London Stock Exchange Group expanded its size and scope through a series of mergers. Its shares now trade at more than five times their value when Mr. Rolet took the top job in May 2009, in the midst of the financial crisis, and more than twice the pre-crisis high. Shares of the exchange operator were down about 2 percent on Wednesday. The merger with Deutsche Börse, announced in March 2016, would have been a crowning achievement for Mr. Rolet, 58, capping a career that also included senior positions at Lehman Brothers, Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse First Boston. He had said he intended to retire after the completion of the $30 billion deal — the third attempted tie-up between the two stock market operators since 2000 — which would have created a heavyweight better positioned to compete with American rivals. But in June 2016, Britons voted to leave the European Union, complicating a deal that would have brought together companies from two of the bloc’s member states. That the combined company would have its headquarters in London only served to concern German regulators further. Then, in March, the European Commission, the European Union’s executive arm, blocked the deal, citing concerns that a merger would create a “de facto monopoly” in the clearing of bonds and fixed-income products. Last month, Mr. Rolet announced he would retire by the end of 2018, giving the exchange operator time to find a replacement. But TCI Fund Management, an activist investor run by Christopher Hohn, claimed that the exchange had forced Mr. Rolet to retire, and waged an aggressive campaign to keep him in place. That included calling for a special meeting to replace Donald Brydon as the exchange operator’s chairman and extending Mr. Rolet’s contract. Mr. Brydon had announced plans to depart in 2019. TCI, short for The Children’s Investment Fund, later asked the Bank of England to intervene. On Wednesday, Mr. Rolet quit and Mr. Brydon announced plans to depart in 2019. “Since the announcement of my future departure on 19 October, there has been a great deal of unwelcome publicity, which has not been helpful to the company,” he said in a news release on Wednesday. “At the request of the board, I have agreed to step down as C.E.O. with immediate effect. I will not be returning to the office of C.E.O. or director under any circumstances.” Mr. Rolet’s sudden resignation comes on the heels of Mr. Kengeter’s announcement last month that he would leave Deutsche Börse at the end of this year amid an insider trading inquiry by German regulators into his stock purchases ahead of the confirmation that the two exchange operators were in merger talks. Mr. Kengeter has said he did nothing wrong and Deutsche Börse has stood behind him throughout the investigation. The company has disputed the view of investigators about the stock purchases, but agreed in September of this year to pay about $12.5 million in fines to resolve the inquiry. In October, however, a German court, declined to approve the agreement. The London Stock Exchange Group also said on Wednesday that Mr. Brydon would not stand for re-election at its annual meeting in 2019. The company has asked TCI to drop its request for a special meeting. Mr. Brydon and “the board believe that at that point it would be in shareholders’ interests to have a new team at the helm to steer the future progress of the company,” the London Stock Exchange Group said. David Warren, the company’s chief financial officer, will serve as interim chief executive until a successor is chosen. The company’s board is confident the company “will continue to prosper with David Warren as interim C.E.O. and the existing strong management team,” Mr. Brydon said in a news release. “We acknowledge, as I said last month, Xavier’s immense — indeed transformative — contribution to the business.”