 WOLFSBURG, Germany — Herbert Diess has one big advantage as he takes over as the chief executive of Volkswagen after his official appointment Thursday. He is not a product of Wolfsburg, the carmaker’s base. Mr. Diess also has one big disadvantage. He is not a product of Wolfsburg. As a relative newcomer to the company, a former BMW executive who joined only two months before an emissions scandal erupted, Mr. Diess is not associated with the wrongdoing that continues to weigh heavily on the company’s image and finances, and that remains the subject of major criminal investigations by German and United States authorities. That sets Mr. Diess apart from his predecessor, Matthias Müller. While Mr. Müller denies having known of illegal software that evaded emissions regulations, he held high-ranking positions at Volkswagen when the so-called defeat device was being developed and deployed. But unlike Mr. Müller, who spent his whole career at Volkswagen and its subsidiaries before being ousted this week, Mr. Diess is an outsider. Named chief executive by the Volkswagen supervisory board at a meeting late Thursday, he must now show that he can navigate Volkswagen’s notoriously insular, hierarchical company culture. Volkswagen’s overseers centralized an unusual amount of power in Mr. Diess’s hands as part of a major reorganization also announced Thursday. He will assume control of the company’s budget Skoda and SEAT brands in addition to his existing duties managing the division that manufactures cars sold under the Volkswagen brand. He will also have direct responsibility for research and development. And Volkswagen indicated it would prepare its truck and bus divisions for possible sale on the stock market, a major departure after decades of empire building by previous chief executives. Until recently, bigness for its own sake was essential to Volkswagen’s identity. The company’s unique culture is pervasive not only within its vast factory complex but also in the city of 125,000 across a barge canal. Volkswagen is Wolfsburg’s dominant employer, the main source of tax revenue, even the owner of the local professional soccer team. Status at the company automatically brings status in the community. License plates issued for company cars include letter codes — understood by everyone in Wolfsburg — that signify whether the driver is a high-ranking Volkswagen manager or even a manager’s spouse. Volkswagen’s deeply embedded, conformist ethos was seen as a proximate cause of the scandal. It was why no one challenged the managers who devised illegal software to cover up excess engine emissions, and why no one reported the wrongdoing to any outside authorities for nearly a decade. Changing the culture is one of Mr. Diess’s primary tasks. It is effectively a condition of the agreement Volkswagen made with United States authorities to settle civil and criminal actions stemming from the emissions wrongdoing. Volkswagen is required to establish a stronger whistle-blower system, and ensure that employees believe they can use it. “Culture is certainly the most difficult task for Diess,” said Ferdinand Dudenhöffer, a professor at the University of Duisburg-Essen who follows the car industry. Mr. Müller took over in late 2015 after the scandal became public, but lately seemed to lose momentum. He had expressed frustration with how long it was taking for Volkswagen to move past the scandal. Mr. Diess won favor with the Porsche and Piëch families, who own a majority of Volkswagen’s voting shares, by improving profits at the division that makes Volkswagen-brand cars despite a decline in the number of vehicles sold. “He has demonstrated to impressive effect the speed and rigor with which he can implement radical transformation,” Hans Dieter Pötsch, the chairman of the Volkswagen supervisory board and a confidant of the Porsche family, said in a statement. But Mr. Dudenhöffer noted that Mr. Diess will still have to contend with the extraordinary power that Volkswagen workers and local politicians exert over strategy. The State of Lower Saxony owns 20 percent of the company and has two representatives on the supervisory board. Worker representatives have another 10 seats on the 20-person board, meaning that unions and the state government together control the company. “There is no balance of power in the supervisory board,” Mr. Dudenhöffer said. In a demonstration of worker power, the supervisory board on Thursday also named a high-ranking labor representative, Gunnar Kilian, as head of personnel. The board-level position includes responsibility for negotiations with unions. In another major change, Francisco Javier García Sanz, a Spaniard who has been the board member in charge of procurement since 2001, will retire. Mr. García Sanz exemplified Volkswagen’s preference for managers with a long record of loyalty. Worker control helps explain why people in Wolfsburg identify so strongly with Volkswagen. But it will also make it difficult for Mr. Diess to reduce the work force, a move considered essential if Volkswagen is to become as efficient as its biggest rival, Toyota. The Wolfsburg system has defeated outsiders in the past. The last time Volkswagen had a chief executive who had not spent nearly all his career at the company was when Bernd Pischetsrieder, like Mr. Diess a former BMW manager, took over in 2002. Mr. Pischetsrieder was pushed out after about four years.