 Q. I have difficulty typing on the computer, and would like to know if there are programs that can convert speech into text with formatting. What can I use? A. Dictation software that transforms spoken words into text formatted with different type styles, subheads and alignments is readily available. With some programs, you can even add bullet lists, adjust line spacing and apply highlight colors to text, all through spoken commands. In fact, you may find that programs you already use can handle basic formatting by dictation — as long as you use the right commands. For example, when used with the Chrome browser and Google’s system of “voice typing,” Google Docs can add quite a bit of text formatting when you tell the program what to do. To compose and edit text this way, you need a microphone connected to your computer; headset microphones from a smartphone may work if the connector is compatible. When the microphone is set up, use the Chrome browser to go to Google Docs, and open (or create) a new document. In the Google Docs Tools menu, choose Voice Typing, click the microphone icon and start dictating your document. You can insert punctuation by saying things like “comma” or “period” aloud as you dictate. To apply formatting to a paragraph, you have just dictated, say “select paragraph” to highlight it and then say how you want it formatted, like “italic.” The Google Docs help site has a list of all the verbal formatting commands you can use and instructions for phrasing your formatting requests. Microsoft’s Windows 7 and Windows 10 operating systems include speech-recognition software you can use with a word-processing program to format paragraph breaks and other basic elements. If the program is not enabled by default, you can turn it on in the Windows Ease of Access settings. If you plan to use Microsoft Word, the free Dictate add-on utility for the Windows version of Microsoft Office uses the same speech-recognition software the company uses in its Cortana virtual assistant and can translate your speech into other languages. Apple’s Mac operating system has been converting text to speech for years, but you may need to set up the software properly on your computer. If your Mac has the Siri assistant, you can tell it to “turn on Dictation.” If you have an older version of the Mac operating system, click the gear-shaped System Preferences icon in the desktop dock, select Keyboard and then Dictation. Click the On button in the Dictation box and click the check box for Enhanced Dictation. The Enhanced Dictation option downloads Apple’s transcription software directly to the Mac. (By default, the Mac operating system converts speech to text over an internet connection to Apple’s servers.) Once the Enhanced Dictation software is installed, you do not have to have to be online for it to work and you can use the program’s dictation commands to format the text. Third-party programs also convert your speech into text. Nuance’s line of Dragon dictation software is a popular choice in this category and Nuance’s site has guides to using the Dragon software to format text specifically with Google Docs or Microsoft Word.