 Good Monday morning. Here’s what we’re watching: • JPMorgan Chase named Daniel Pinto and Gordon Smith as co-presidents and co-chief operating officers. • Keurig Green Mountain plans to buy Dr Pepper Snapple. • Steve Wynn has become the highest-profile C.E.O. enmeshed in #MeToo. • How did President Trump do at Davos? • And what is the government thinking about on 5G networks? Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up. JPMorgan Chase named Daniel Pinto and Gordon Smith as co-presidents and co-chief operating officers on Monday. — Mr. Pinto, 55, has run JPMorgan’s corporate and investment bank for the past five years. An Argentine, Mr. Pinto has spent the entirety of his 35-year career at JPMorgan. — Mr. Smith, 59, is head of the bank’s consumer and community bank. He oversees 140,000 of the bank’s 240,000 employees. Mr. Smith joined JPMorgan in 2007 from American Express. The question now is whether the move positions one of the two to succeed Mr. Dimon as chief executive of the nation’s largest bank by assets. Both Mr. Pinto and Mr. Smith are old enough that it is unclear whether they will be serious contenders for the top job. In the press release annoucing their appointments, the bank said Mr. Dimon planned to stay on the job for another five years. That would mean both executives would be in their 60s when Mr. Dimon retired. But both men could be prepared to step in if unforeseen events cause Mr. Dimon to leave. There has been, of course, much speculation that Mr. Dimon may run for president. (Mr. Dimon has said he is not running.) Monday’s moves feel similar to the promotion of Jes Staley to run JPMorgan’s investment bank in 2009. Mr. Staley was close in age to Mr. Dimon, so he was viewed less as a long-term solution to JPMorgan’s succession planning and more an executive who could step in if something happened to Mr. Dimon. Listed in the phalanx of bankers and lawyers behind the $18.7 billion acquisition of Dr Pepper Snapple is a name that you might easily miss, “AFW LP.” That happens to be short for “Antonio Francesco Weiss,” the former Lazard banker and Treasury Department official — and an adviser to Keurig. During his career at Lazard, Mr. Weiss became one of the investment bank’s biggest deal makers, eventually becoming the firm’s global head of investment banking after having done tours of duty in New York and Paris. Among the deals he worked on were InBev’s acquisition of Anheuser Busch, Reynolds American’s takeover of fellow cigarette maker Lorillard, Burger King’s takeover of Tim Hortons and Google’s purchase of Motorola Mobility. (He was also publisher of The Paris Review.) During his career, he came to know the executives who run JAB, which is Keurig’s majorityshareholder, and sold the company D.E. Master Blenders, the international coffee business then owned by Mondelez. JAB later combined D.E. Master Blenders with Keurig in a nearly $14 billion deal. But Mr. Weiss left Lazard to become a counselor at the Treasury Department in the Obama administration, taking on issues like Puerto Rico’s debt crisis and the marketplace lending practiced by the likes of Lending Club. Since leaving government, Mr. Weiss has taken up residence as a senior fellow at the Mossavar-Rhamani Center for Business and Government at Harvard’s Kennedy School, as well as a directorship at the Volcker Alliance. (He’s also a prolific op-ed and briefing writer.) He has weighed whether to get back into investment banking, and has been courted by many an investment bank. It’s unclear whether he will ultimately join an existing shop or start his own, as rain makers like Paul Taubman have done. The other advisers on the deal For Keurig Green Mountain: • Goldman Sachs, BDT &amp; Company (which is also investing in the deal), Mr. Weiss, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and the law firms Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &amp; Flom and McDermott, Will &amp; Emery • JPMorgan, Bank of America and Goldman are also providing financing for the deal. (The combined company is expected to have some $16.6 billion in debt if the deal closes, though it also anticipates keeping an investment-grade credit rating.) For Dr Pepper Snapple • Credit Suisse and the law firm Morgan, Lewis &amp; Bockius For Mondelez • The law firm Clifford Chance — Michael J. de la Merced Companies want to go public. They just want to avoid the initial public offering process. That’s at least one take away from Monday morning’s deal news. Exhibit #1: Keurig Green Mountain’s $18.7 billion deal for Dr Pepper Snapple Group.  Under the terms of the proposed transaction, Keurig, which was taken private in 2016 by JAB Holding, would merge with Dr Pepper Snapple. The deal would create a new company to be called Keurig Dr Pepper, which would trade on the New York Stock Exchange. Keurig’s current shareholders would own about 87 percent of the combined company, with Dr Pepper Snapple investors owning the remainder. Exhibit #2: Speculation that Dell could merge with VMware through so-called reverse merger.  Alex Sherman of CNBC reports: The news comes as Spotify is planning to hit the public markets through a so-called direct listing. Such listings essentially move trading in a company’s stock from private markets to public ones, with new investors buying shares on the open market. Instead of a prospectus many weeks before the market debut, the company files a registration statement soon before a direct listing. Wall Street and Silicon Valley are closely watching Spotify’s listing. If it goes well, it could spur other high profile start-ups to pursue a direct listing. That would be bad news for Wall Street since direct listings generate lower fees than the typical I.P.O. A small provision in the Dodd-Frank Act outlawing something called “spoofing” has generated the latest round of criminal charges against eight traders along with civil settlements by Deutsche Bank, HSBC, and UBS. All for doing something that happens every second of the trading day: entering and then canceling orders. The law makes it illegal to engage in “bidding or offering with the intent to cancel the bid or offer before execution.” The federal appeals court in Chicago upheld the first criminal conviction for spoofing last year in United States v. Coscia, in which the judges rejected the argument that no one was deceived by orders placed and then quickly canceled because other traders do that routinely. “His scheme was deceitful because, at the time he placed the large orders, he intended to cancel the orders.” Apparently, the only requirement to prove spoofing is that the defendant enters orders without any real hope they will be filled to pull the market in one direction so that other orders can be filled, generating a small profit. Proving the case requires showing multiple orders were used and not just isolated transactions, such as one defendant who engaged in what the government claims was 36,000 different instances of spoofing. And it wouldn’t be a case involving traders if there weren’t the usual messages showing how they were gladly abusing the market. In one chat, a trader wrote “so glad I could help . . . got that up 2 bucks . . . that does show u how easy it is to manipulate it.” Describing something as manipulation sure does help prove intent. Who is fooled by the spoofing? It turns out that most of the time it is competing computer algorithms of other high-frequency trading firms. So this isn’t a case in which mom-and-pop investors are taking it on the chin. — Peter J. Henning Meet Shah Capital, Barington Capital Group and NuOrion Partners, who together own about 3.5 percent of the cosmetics maker and today publicly called upon the company to consider selling itself. Barington and NuOrion were behind a previous campaign to force out Avon’s C.E.O., Sherilyn McCoy. Ms. McCoy has already announced plans to step down. From the hedge funds’ letter: The context Avon is just over two years removed from an agreement to spin off its North American business into a privately held company that was majority-owned by Cerberus Capital Management. After the sale, Avon announced a three-year strategic plan to focus on its remaining operations outside the U.S. and reduce costs. Avon reported $12.5 million in profit for its third fiscal quarter, after previously reporting three consecutive quarterly losses. The company is set to report its fourth quarter results next month. — Chad Bray In the wake of a WSJ investigation into allegations of sexual assault and misconduct, the casino magnate’s empire has already taken a hit. He has also resigned as the Republican National Committee’s finance chairman. But more pain is probably in store for Mr. Wynn, whom the veteran reporter Jon Ralston calls “the biggest name in the history of Nevada business.” The corporate fallout The Wynn board — long criticized as too cozy with its chairman — has already said that it will form an independent investigating committee. Then there’s the question of what will happen to Mr. Wynn’s casinos, particularly in Macau, which accounts for the vast majority of Wynn Resorts’ revenue. More from Daniela Wei and Bruce Einhorn of Bloomberg: Whether Mr. Wynn will be ousted — for a second time — is unclear. He owns 21 percent of Wynn Resorts, but has no extra voting power. The political fallout Lawmakers are starting to distance themselves, with House Speaker Paul Ryan donating $1,000 he had received from a Wynn affiliate to charity. “We were in the dark for 24 hours,” one unnamed R.N.C. member fumed to Robert Costa of the WaPo. Mr. Wynn wasn’t among the top 100 political donors in the 2016 election cycle. But President Trump chose him as the R.N.C.’s finance chair, and he hosted a fund-raiser for the president at Mar-a-Lago on Jan. 20. More misconduct news • Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, fired his chief of staff this weekend over inappropriate relations with lower-level employees. • Investment funds are piling into the settlement-advance industry, in which firms pay plaintiffs in anticipation of a big court victory. Andrew’s take: Per Daniel Yergin of IHS Markit: And Ishmael Sunga of the Southern Africa Confederation of Agricultural Unions: Mr. Trump’s speech, largely written by Gary Cohn and the White House staff secretary, Rob Porter, was both a defense of the White House’s nationalist policies and a case for international cooperation, on U.S. terms. (“America first does not mean America alone.”) The bigger picture While Mr. Trump sought to play down any isolationist tendencies — and the director general of the World Trade Organization said, “I haven’t seen anything at this point that we are in a trade war” — China was still in his sights. A headline from The South China Morning Post: “China should ‘be ready for a trade war’ after Donald Trump’s Davos speech.” (To many attendees, China remained the real star of this year’s World Economic Forum.) A bit of color: Many C.E.O.s left Davos before Mr. Trump’s speech. Also, this happened: Andrew was pelted with a snowball by Steven Mnuchin. Depends what we’re talking about. Axios reported that the White House has considered creating a centralized, national 5G network for national security reasons, citing a National Security Council memo. More from Jonathan Swan, David McCabe, Ina Fried and Kim Hart of Axios: Bloomberg, citing its own sources, paints a slightly different picture: “The U.S. is in talks with private companies to build a secure 5G network amid concerns about China and cybersecurity.” The decision deadline is the end of September. The bigger picture AT&amp;T, Verizon, T-Mobile and others have already spent billions of dollars on 5G networks. Given its speed and data capacity, it remains their biggest initiative, and it’s unclear how much control, if any, they would be willing to give up. Any nationalization effort would run counter to how the government has handled wireless infrastructure for decades: by auctioning off the airwaves and letting private companies do the work. From AT&amp;T’s statement on the issue: • Republican lawmakers warned Mr. Trump not to fire Robert Mueller, but showed little interest in a bill to protect him. (NYT) • The Koch brothers’ political network plans to spend as much as $400 million on this year’s midterm elections. (Axios) • A portrait of Paul Manafort as a dangerously successful foreign-policy entrepreneur. (Atlantic) He spoke to Reuters shortly before being freed from detention in the Riyadh Ritz-Carlton over the weekend: The prince denied forfeiting a significant part of his fortune or pledging donations to projects spearheaded by his jailer, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. But analysts in the region still think his ultimate settlement will be pricey. Shares in Kingdom Holding are back to where they traded before Mr. bin Talal’s detention. The big questions: Will international businesses feel better about investing in Saudi Arabia after what the crown prince said was a crackdown on corruption? And how much will the kingdom collect from the royals who were detained? In other Saudi news: The government still hasn’t decided where to list Aramco, and it may not begin trading on an international stock exchange this year. Meanwhile, the U.S. oil industry is still riding high. That’s in the wake of the NYT Magazine’s inquiry into Devumi, a company that sold millions of fake followers (some using stolen identities) to the likes of Michael Dell and the Twitter director Martha Lane Fox. “Impersonation and deception are illegal under New York law,” the state attorney general said. The big question Do Twitter and other social media companies really want a crackdown? Here’s the take of Dan Leal, a pornographer who bought followers: In other tech news: Intel’s initial disclosures about flaws in its chips included briefings for Chinese tech companies but not the U.S. government, the WSJ reported, citing unnamed sources. • Sanofi agreed to buy Ablynx, a Belgian biotech company, for $4.7 billion. (Reuters) • Three activist investors — Shah Capital, Barington Capital Group and NuOrion Partners — who together own a 3.5 percent stake in Avon plan to push the cosmetics maker into selling itself. (WSJ) • Low interest rates, legal bills and capital demands have eroded profits at European banks, making the rationale for mergers more compelling. (Bloomberg) • Alibaba and Foxconn led a $350 million fund-raising round by Xiopeng Motors, an electric carmaker that wants to be China’s Tesla. (Bloomberg) • Leonard Green is near a deal to buy Pro Mach Group, a packaging company, for more than $2.2 billion, including debt, according to unnamed sources. (Reuters) Coincheck, a Japanese digital currency exchange, promised to partially reimburse customers after being hit by a $500 million theft on Friday. But the heist has again raised the prospect of more regulation. Coincheck has until Feb. 13 to explain the cause of the incident and how it will stop it happening again. Another Bitcoin no-trade zone: Deutsche Bank’s wealth management unit is advising clients against investing in virtual currencies • Ingvar Kamprad, who made a multibillion-dollar fortune with Ikea and introduced the world to cheap, Nordic-designed furniture, died on Saturday. • William McDonough, who led the New York Fed through both Sept. 11 and the Long-Term Capital Management crisis, died last week. — Bill Gates, speaking about social media, A.I. and many other topics in the NYT’s Table for Three column.  • Every major economy on earth is expanding. (NYT) • The expansion of the U.S. economy rests on consumer confidence. But history indicates that it will eventually shift the other way, writes Robert Shiller. (NYT) • The L.A. Times is expected to name Jim Kirk, former editor and publisher of The Chicago Sun-Times, as its next editor in chief. He replaces Lewis D’Vorkin, who touched off unrest in the newsroom. (NYT) • Some consolation for the places that lost out on being Amazon’s HQ2: Their applications will help Amazon pick warehouse and secondary office sites. (NYT) • In China, the collapse of a string of online investment companies has devastated small investors. Beijing is acting to tamp down on potential unrest. (NYT) • HNA Group’s liquidity woes could test China’s legal system. (FT) • Tech giants are scrambling to prepare for stringent new data privacy rules in Europe, with Facebook rolling out a new global data privacy center on Sunday. (NYT) • Rob Norman, the retiring chief digital officer of GroupM talks to us about Facebook’s news plans. (NYT) • Volkswagen, Daimler and BMW are struggling to deal with a public relations disaster that stemmed from their financing a test that used monkeys to monitor the health effects of diesel exhaust. (NYT) We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.