 Stocks fell Wednesday in a seesaw trading session, as markets sought direction after several tumultuous days of trading. After registering a 1.7 percent gain on Tuesday, the Standard &amp; Poor’s 500-stock index spent much of Wednesday in positive territory, led by large industrial companies positioned to capitalize on global growth and investors hunting for potential bargains from recent selling. But slumping oil prices weighed on the energy stocks throughout the afternoon. Crude oil futures closed down 2.5 percent in New York. Exxon Mobil fell 1.8 percent, and Chevron dropped 1.6 percent. The energy sector, which fell 1.7 percent, helped pull the S.&amp;P. 500 back into negative territory in the last hour of trading. The broad index fell 0.5 percent. Other indexes also dropped. The Dow Jones industrial average slid 0.1 percent, and the Nasdaq composite fell 0.9 percent. Another uptick in interest rates also seemed to dampen what had started out as a relatively decent day for stocks. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.84 percent after lackluster demand in an auction of $24 billion worth of the benchmark government bonds. Yields on 10-year Treasuries, which serve as the foundation for a range of consumer borrowing rates, are near their highest levels since January 2014. The steady climb in interest rates has gained pace in 2018. And it has become a concern for investors who believe the low interest rates since the financial crisis have been a cornerstone of the long bull market for stocks. Interest rates on shorter-term Treasury bonds, such as the two-year note, have also risen sharply. Those shorter-term bond yields tend to be sensitive to changing expectations surrounding monetary policy, another source of worry in recent days. Just a few days ago, the Labor Department’s most recent jobs report, which showed the United States economy adding a solid 200,000 jobs in January, helped send markets sharply lower. The report also showed wages growth rising at their fastest pace in years. Those developments, on their face, should not be bad signs for the consumption-heavy American economy. But some economists consider wage growth an indication that inflation could rise. And investors took the wage data as a reason to worry that the Federal Reserve could raise interest rates more quickly than policymakers had previously suggested. Stocks fell sharply when the January jobs report was issued on Friday. The sell-off gathered force on Monday when the S.&amp;P. 500 fell 4.1 percent, its biggest single-day drop since August 2011. The sell-off briefly spread through global markets. But a solid performance by markets in the United States on Tuesday seemed to cool the fire. With markets in positive territory early Wednesday, President Trump broke his silence on stock market volatility, posting a message on Twitter that promoted the health of the American economy and calling the recent sell-off a “big mistake.” “We have so much good (great) news about the economy!” Mr. Trump wrote. The American economy does indeed appear to have significant momentum. At 4.1 percent, the unemployment rate is low. And the gross domestic product grew at an annual clip of 2.6 percent in the fourth quarter. Recent corporate earnings reports have been solid, with several companies outlining plans to increase investment, in part because of the tax code overhaul that became law in December. Industrial companies are also piggybacking on that economic strength both in the United States and abroad. Ball Corporation, a maker of metal packaging like beer cans, was one of the best-performing stocks in the S.&amp;P. 500 on Wednesday. Shares in Ball, which has plants around the world, rose sharply after the company reported favorable earnings results and cited momentum in its business supplying the aerospace industry. Other large industrial companies, such as Boeing, also rose, helping to lift indexes. “As we look forward, the market drivers of better economic prospects and higher profits have not changed at all,” Steven M. Duryee, a portfolio manager at Morgan Stanley’s Bergman Continuum Group, a wealth management firm, said in an email to clients.