 Good Wednesday. Here’s what we’re watching: • Spotify files to go public. • Dick’s Sporting Goods will stop selling assault-style rifles. • The end of an era for Ackman; the start for another one? • What to make of Wall Street’s response to Mr. Powell? • The Federal Reserve is walking a monetary tightrope. • And is Jared Kushner’s weakness his family business? Want this in your inbox every morning? Sign up here. Perhaps more than any other streaming service, Spotify has revived the fortunes of recording artists. It is funneling billions of dollars from its subscribers to music companies, which, for the most part, faced a bleak future. But a charity Spotify is not. The company appears to be taking a bigger and bigger cut of the revenue it receives from listeners, according to numbers first made public on Wednesday. The numbers are included in Spotify’s financial filing with Securities and Exchange Commission ahead of listing its shares on the United States stock market. They strongly suggest that Spotify has successfully flexed its muscle as it negotiates the price it pays record companies for music. This shows up starkly in the filing’s discussion of an expense item called cost of revenues, which, the filing says, “consists predominately of royalty and distribution costs related to content streaming.” The filing says Spotify had €3.67 billion of premium streaming revenue last year. The cost of that revenue last year was €2.87 billion. The difference between those numbers, the gross profit on streaming revenue, was equivalent to 22 percent of that revenue. That is well up from 16 percent in 2016 and 15 percent in 2015. And how did Spotify bolster its margins? A big factor: It signed more advantageous licensing agreements with music companies. “This decrease in cost of revenue as a percentage of premium revenue was driven largely by a reduction in content costs pursuant to new licensing agreements,” the filing said. But can Spotify keep turning the screw? The music companies might be willing to compromise on price because the overall amount of dollars they receive is going up, making life easier for the first time in years. But, with Apple, Amazon and others adding subscribers, competition is intensifying. The music industry might be able to exploit that. — Peter Eavis Accounting nerds delving into Spotify’s filing will have stumbled on an odd discrepancy. Two metrics that attempt to capture how much cash a company is taking in had very different totals for 2017. Ebitda, or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, was negative to the tune of €324 million last year. But net cash flows from operations totaled €179 million in 2017. Both totals benefited from adding back large noncash financing costs. So what items bolstered operating cash flows but not Ebitda? It looks like operating cash flows did better in part because Spotify waited to pay some of its bills. Such items make up what is often called working capital. Spotify wrung €439 million of cash out of working capital in 2017. The question for investors is whether the company can do that every year. — Peter Eavis The streaming music service filed its prospectus for a direct listing on the New York Stock Exchange, an unusual route that bypasses the traditional initial public offering process. Direct listings essentially move trading in a company’s stock from private markets to public ones, with new investors buying shares on the open market. Wall Street and Silicon Valley will watch Spotify’s listing closely. If it goes well, it could spur other high profile start-ups to pursue a direct listing. Wall Street bankers are unlikely to cheer such a development. Direct listings generate lower fees than the typical I.P.O. Spotify won’t embark on its roadshow, a series of meetings with investor ahead of the listing, for at least 15 days. Here’s a look at the details: Ticker symbol: SPOT Price range for private shares in 2017:  $37.50-$125.00  Price range for private shares this year:  $90.00-$132.50 Valuation range in 2017: $6.3 billion to $20.9 billion Valuation range this year: $15.9 billion to $23.4 billion Valuation based on the midpoint of its 2018 price range: $19.7 billion Loss: €1.2 billion in 2017, up from €225 million in 2015 Operating loss: €378 million, compared with €235 million in 2015. Revenue: €4.1 billion last year, up from €1.9 billion in 2015. Free cash flow: €109 million in 2017 Ebitda: -€324 million in 2017 Monthly average users: 159 million last year, up from 91 million in 2015 Premium subscribers: 71 million, up from 28 million in 2015 Share of global streaming music market: 42 percent The amount Spotify has paid in royalties to record labels since its inception: More than $8 billion Percent of total voting power controlled by co-founder and chief executive, Daniel Ek: 37.3 percent Percent of total voting power controlled by co-founder, Martin Lorentzon: 43.1 percent Risks of a direct listing: “Our ability to sell your ordinary shares at or above the price you bought them for due to (i) our listing not having the same safeguards as an underwritten initial public offering, which may result in the public price of our ordinary shares being volatile and declining significantly upon listing, or (ii) the failure of an active, liquid, and orderly market for our ordinary shares to develop or be sustained.” Despite a sharp selloff in financial markets in early February, the market for public offerings started 2018 with a bang. Through late February, 30 companies publicly listed their shares on markets in the United States, raising $11.4 billion from investors. That was the strongest annual start for the market since 2000, according to data from Thomson Reuters. The pipeline of listings to come is also strong. On top of Spotify’s listing, which should come in the next few weeks, Dropbox filed paperwork last week to go public. One of the U.S.’s biggest gun sellers, Dick’s Sporting Goods, said that it would stop selling assault-style rifles and high-capacity magazines, as well as limit sales of any gun to those 21 and older. In doing so, the retailer is steering directly into the controversy that has embroiled companies that have taken on the American gun lobby. Dick’s C.E.O., Edward Stack, told the NYT: What’s next: Mr. Stack wants what he calls “common sense” changes to gun laws, like the steps his company is taking and broader universal background checks. Why it’s remarkable:  Other companies, big and small, continue to sever ties to the National Rifle Association. Delta has been openly dressed down — and potentially punished — by Republicans in Georgia after eliminating discounts for N.R.A. members. (Gun control is certainly a hot topic in the midterm election campaign.) And then there’s this: FedEx and UPS are feuding over ties to the N.R.A. Over five years ago, Bill Ackman boldly announced that he was shorting Herbalife, declaring the company a pyramid scheme and vowing to see its stock price down to zero. Today, Mr. Ackman finally gave up on that quest. The Pershing Square Capital Management chief told CNBC that his firm had finally exited the short bet. That’s after: • Mr. Ackman’s frenemy, Dan Loeb, took the other side of that bet. • So did Carl Icahn, in one of the most prominent public spats in recent Wall Street history, before the two men made up. (That didn’t stop Mr. Icahn from continuing to bet on Herbalife.) How did Herbalife investors respond Wednesday? They pushed shares in the company up 8.5 percent to $94.04, an all-time high. But Mr. Ackman has found a new investment: United Technologies. Why? The hedge fund mogul told CNBC that he liked the company — which happens to be considering spinning off parts of itself as a way to get more value for the conglomerate’s shareholders. Shares in United Technologies were up 2.1 percent this afternoon, at $136.73. — Michael de la Merced For months, the former real estate investor’s inability to get a permanent top-secret security clearance has been a lightning rod for criticism. Now his interim credentials have been docked to secret and his West Wing portfolio clipped — and people are asking what happened. One thing that has come up, per the WaPo, citing unidentified U.S. officials: Officials in China, Israel, Mexico and the United Arab Emirates have discussed how to manipulate him by taking advantage of his business dealings and complicated finances. Speaking of the Kushner business: It’s is in talks to buy Vornado out of 666 Fifth Ave., the troubled Manhattan skyscraper that the two own, according to the WSJ. Critics will ask, where would the money come from? Is it scaring off users? So far the answer seems to be no. CNBC reports Snap’s download rates have remained strong, according to App Annie. And Snap’s shares are up 5 percent. Background Snap’s redesign, which has been rolling out over the past few months, has faced growing criticism from users and weighed on the stock. Last week a tweet from Kylie Jenner, saying she did not open Snapchat, sent the stock tumbling 6 percent. Wall Street has picked up on the customer backlash and a couple of analysts have downgraded the stock. The criticism has also overshadowed Snap’s positive fourth-quarter results earlier this month that pushed its shares up nearly 50 percent. BlackRock thinks that could be a risk to its business. From the risk factors in BlackRock’s annual report: The filing goes on to say: That is how John D. Herrmann, an analyst who covers the bond markets for MUFG Securities Americas, reacted to the testimony in Congress of Jerome Powell. In a note to clients yesterday, Mr. Herrmann cataloged upbeat remarks that Mr. Powell made, and observed that Mr. Powell seemed optimistic not just about the current economic environment, but also the outlook for the next three to four years. What to make of Wall Street’s response to Mr. Powell? One interpretation is that Mr. Powell wants investors and others to be more prepared for higher interest rates. Wall Street seems to have settled on a scenario in which the Fed raises interest rates steadily over the next two years. Any sign that rates may rise much more quickly than expected could cause a panicky pullback in the financial markets, which could ultimately harm the economy. To help prevent that, Fed officials can say things aimed at prompting investors to give more consideration to certain outcomes. Is it working?  Arguably, if investors were more concerned, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note would be higher than the 2.88 percent it traded at on Wednesday morning. Bank of America Merrill Lynch is forecasting the 10-year Treasury yield will be 3.25 percent at the end of this year. Anyone surprised that the yield gets there far more quickly should not be after Mr. Powell’s testimony. — Peter Eavis • Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has floated the idea of rejoining the Trans-Pacific Partnership, more than a year after President Trump walked away. (NYT) • Washington and Beijing are bracing for a new cold war, as President Xi Jinping prepares to stay in power indefinitely. • Hope Hicks, the White House communications director, said that she hasn’t lied about issues relevant to investigations into Russia’s election interference. And the head of the N.S.A., Adm. Michael Rogers, said that the U.S. hasn’t done enough to deter Russia from future meddling. • Facebook said that the Trump campaign spent slightly more per ad on its site than Hillary Clinton’s. (Bloomberg) • Josh Raffel, who was brought to the White House as a spokesman for Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump, is leaving. (Axios) • Mick Mulvaney is focused on cutting financial firms’ cost of complying with regulations by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. (WSJ) • Ben Carson, the Housing and Urban Development secretary, is under scrutiny for spending $31,000 for furniture for his office as the department looks to cut programs for the homeless, elderly and poor. (NYT) It’s because the British satellite broadcaster Sky — which Comcast and 21st Century Fox are poised to fight over — is a smaller example of what U.S. telecom giants want to become. More from Stu Woo of the WSJ: It’s also probably because everyone is worried about Netflix. Critics’ corner: Investors are right to expect a bidding war, according to Chris Hughes of Gadfly. The deals flyaround • Geely built up its stake in Daimler through complex derivative trades that allowed it to build up its holdings while limiting risk, unidentified sources said. (Bloomberg) • Toshiba’s sale of its memory chip business has opened the door to other Japanese companies selling long-cherished businesses. (FT) • Talks about a merger between Walgreens Boots Alliance and AmerisourceBergen have ended without an agreement, unidentified sources said. (CNBC) • Toys “R” Us is in talks to sell its Asian business to Fung Group, its local partner, for at least $1 billion, unnamed sources said. And its British arm has filed for administration and will begin winding down. • Baidu’s streaming service, iQiyi, filed for an I.P.O. (CNBC) • Grail, the cancer detection start-up backed by Jeff Bezos and Bill Gates, is planning an I.P.O. in Hong Kong, according to unnamed sources. (Bloomberg) • Nomad Health, an online marketplace for health care jobs, has raised $12 million in new financing. (BusinessWire) Women in finance aren’t coming forward in huge numbers, in part because the movement has made the work environment more difficult to navigate. Here’s what Brande Stellings, who runs advisory services at the women’s advocacy group Catalyst, told Bethany McLean of Vanity Fair: The misconduct flyaround • A woman told police that she had a child with Steve Wynn after he raped her. Another reported that she was forced to resign from a job after refusing to have sex with him. (AP) • NBC Universal defended Ryan Seacrest against sexual harassment allegations and said he would not be removed from Academy Awards coverage on E! (NYT) • Japanese women who say “Me Too” in Japan still draw criticism rather than sympathy, even from other women. (AP) • The Weinstein Company’s creditors want to lend the studio $25 million during its upcoming bankruptcy proceedings, unnamed sources said. (Reuters) • Can prosecutors force American companies to turn over digital data stored outside the United States? The Supreme Court is struggling to apply a 1986 law. (NYT) • The House passed a bill giving victims and prosecutors more power to sue websites that knowingly aided sex trafficking. Many Silicon Valley companies had opposed the bill, citing potential harm to free speech. (NYT) • Amazon has paid $1.1 billion for Ring, a maker of internet-connected doorbells and security cameras. (NYT) • Cameras are getting brains, creating intriguing and eerie possibilities, Farhad Manjoo argues. (NYT) • Alexa and Siri are forcing household goods giants like Unilever and Nestlé to adapt to a new world of e-commerce. (WSJ) • Companies and investors are betting that we’ll eventually see air taxi services. (NYT) • Barack Obama said Google and Facebook needed to remember that they are “a public good as well as a commercial enterprise.” (Recode) • Bill Gates is skeptical about virtual currencies and initial coin offerings. But the Marshall Islands’ government is planning an I.C.O. From the WSJ’s profile of Marcus, the Wall Street titan’s consumer lending arm: • The business literally resides on Main Street (in Salt Lake City). • Marcus has lent $2.5 billion and gained 350,000 customers since opening in 2016. • It has quietly acquired a number of businesses, including fintech start-ups like Honest Dollar and G.E.’s former online savings division. • Lloyd Blankfein reads through customer complaints weekly — but sends the knottiest problems to the firm’s consumer chief, Stephen Scherr. • Dina Powell, most recently a senior official in the Trump administration, has returned to Goldman as the head of its outreach to government clients. (WSJ) • Pinterest has hired Francoise Brougher, a veteran of Google and Square, as its first chief operating officer as it marches toward an eventual I.P.O. (Recode) • SeaWorld’s C.E.O., Joel Manby, has stepped down amid growing losses. (FT) • Uber’s culture coach for top executives, Frances Frei, has stepped down. (Recode) • Salvatore Ferragmo’s C.E.O., Eraldo Poletto, is leaving after less than two years. (Bloomberg) • Mattel’s chief brands officer, Juliana Chugg, is stepping down. (Bloomberg) • HNA technically owns a stake in Deutsche Bank. The reality is a bit more complicated. (FT) • With Mr. Xi of China abolishing term limits, any company could be treated like the chairman of Anbang, according to Jamil Anderlini. (FT) • The online learning company Udacity said that its revenue more than doubled last year, to $70 million, and that it one day hopes to have an I.P.O. (Reuters) • A former employee at Institutional Shareholder Services said that he leaked details about how its investor clients voted in return for tickets to sporting events and U2 and Jay-Z concerts. (Reuters) • Francesca Bellettini was considered a strange choice to lead Yves Saint Laurent, but she has propelled it into the exclusive billion-euro club. (NYT) • Stuttgart, Germany’s car capital, could ban diesel cars in the city as part of an effort to improve air quality. (NYT) • Raises are back, but what will make them stay? (NYT) • Craft breweries are giving new fizz to sleepy commercial districts. (NYT) • Pimco has told Portugal’s public prosector’s office that it will push for compensation if insider trading is proven in the 2015 sale of Novo Banco bonds. (FT) • Dick Costolo is shutting down Chorus, his social fitness start-up. (Axios) • Unilever’s C.E.O. expressed regret over the company’s efforts to woo shareholders after Kraft Heinz’s unsolicited takeover approach. (FT) We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.