 Wendell Jamieson, the metro editor whose resignation was announced by The New York Times on Monday after an internal investigation, was accused of inappropriate behavior by at least three female employees, according to two people familiar with the investigation. The people said at least two women at The Times had alleged that Mr. Jamieson engaged in inappropriate communication. Reached by email, Mr. Jamieson declined to comment on the allegations. The Times did not specify the reason for Mr. Jamieson’s departure. After stepping down from his post, which he had held since 2013, he was replaced in an interim capacity by Susan Chira, a senior correspondent and an editor covering gender issues. “I regret and apologize for my mistakes and leaving under these circumstances,” Mr. Jamieson said in a statement that was included in a note to employees on Monday from Dean Baquet, the executive editor of The Times, and Joseph Kahn, the managing editor. Mr. Jamieson, 51, joined The Times in 2000 after working for Newsday, The Daily News and The New York Post. Eileen Murphy, a spokeswoman for The Times, declined on Monday to say why Mr. Jamieson had been investigated. In their message to Times employees, Mr. Baquet and Mr. Kahn said, “To protect the privacy of those involved, we do not intend to comment further.” According to one person familiar with the investigation, the Times statement lacked detail because the women had asked that their identities not be revealed. In his statement that was included in that note, Mr. Jamieson said, “Leading Metro for the last five years and working with the incredible Times team has been the high point of my professional life.” After issuing his apology, he added: “I’m especially proud of all the talent I’ve helped bring to The Times. Susan Chira is a wonderful editor, a true New Yorker, and I know Metro will rise to even greater heights under her leadership.” Last year, The Times investigated another newsroom employee, the prominent political reporter Glenn Thrush, after learning about allegations of inappropriate behavior against him that were later the subject of a report by the website Vox. After a monthlong investigation, Mr. Thrush was suspended without pay. He returned to the newspaper in late January but was moved from the team covering the White House to a beat focused on the country’s social safety net.