 In a split decision that all but guaranteed continuing litigation, a Federal District Court jury in San Francisco on Monday decided that Google infringed on the overall structure of software copyrights held by Oracle, but also said that Google had not violated other important parts of Oracle’s software known as Java. The limited decision means Google will not have to redesign its Android operating system — which would have slowed the march of Android-powered phones that have steadily gained market share against Apple’s iPhone. Oracle had sued Google claiming Google violated its copyrights to Java when it built the Android operating system. With 300 million Android smartphones, Android is now the world’s dominant mobile software system. Oracle, which is likely to receive only modest damages for the copyright violation, will seek to have Google obtain a license to use Java, something Google does not want to do because it could make Oracle influential in future versions of Android. In a statement after the verdict, Oracle said “every major commercial enterprise — except Google — has a license for Java.” The jury said Google had violated Oracle’s copyright, but could not decide whether the violation was an acceptable level of fair use. A lawyer for Google, citing what he saw as a contradiction in that verdict, said in court after the decision was read that Google would call for a mistrial. A statement from Google said that “fair use and infringement are two sides of the same coin.” The trial, which put the chief executives of both companies on the witness stand, concerned intellectual property for the Java software language that Oracle acquired when it bought Sun Microsystems. Java is a critical element of devices like smartphones and tablets running the Android operating system. A second part of the case, involving two patents on Java, began on Monday. The third phase of the trial, which is being heard by Judge William Alsup, will focus on damages. The jury Monday found that Google did improperly use an aspect of Java, nine lines of software code called rangeCheck, when it designed Android. Google, with its vast cash reserves, could absorb any licensing fees it might be forced to pay to continue using Java, which is typically distributed free to programmers and for a fee to companies, as long as they agree to abide by certain rules. But the decision raises questions about how carefully Google treats intellectual property rights, and could raise doubts among phone makers, who might well wonder what other legal claims might be lurking — from Apple, Microsoft or Nokia, for example. With only a partial win, Google is expected to continue to fight, said Al Hilwa, an analyst with IDC. “There are going to be appeals,” he said. “It looks like Google is close to what it wants, with just one copyright loss. If they have to get a license, all the Android phone vendors have to get one, too. It could give Oracle a say in future versions of Android, and that is something Google doesn’t want.” Oracle’s lawyers argued that while other programmers and companies negotiated open-source and commercial licenses to use Java, Google purposely sought none. It also argued that Google’s Android operating system made use of Java programming tools that were proprietary. Therefore, Oracle asserted, it deserved to share in proceeds of the business created with Android technology. Google argued that it was free to build Android with the Java programming language in the same way that any author freely uses the English language to write books. Google added that before the Oracle acquisition, Sun Microsystems had openly encouraged Google to use Java to make Android. Much of the trial centered on whether Application Programming Interfaces, or A.P.I.’s, which are the way computer applications speak to one another, can be copyrighted. Google argued that A.P.I.’s should not be subject to copyright protection because they are merely the tools programmers use to build applications. Oracle argued that some A.P.I.’s are copyrightable and that Google had violated copyrights on 37 Java A.P.I.’s. Google’s defense on this issue relied on the testimony of Jonathan Schwartz, who ran Sun Microsystems from 2006 until it was acquired by Oracle. Mr. Schwartz testified that Java’s A.P.I.’s were not considered proprietary by Sun. As long as Google did not use Java’s name for its Android platform, Sun Microsystems had no grounds to sue Google. Google’s lawyers also cited a blog post Mr. Schwartz wrote celebrating the fact that Java was “free at last.” Other lively parts of the trial involved the testimony of Lawrence J. Ellison, Oracle’s chief executive, and Larry Page, Google’s chief executive. Mr. Ellison was smooth, if occasionally tripped up by Google’s lawyers about whether Java was free. Mr. Page, who appeared less comfortable on the witness stand, toed the company line, repeatedly stating, “We did nothing wrong.” Legal experts said Oracle’s case against Google is one of the rare incidences of cases involving software copyright or patents going to trial. Most such disputes are settled out of court. “Oracle was determined to push this case to the wall and be aggressive,” said James E. Bessen, an intellectual property expert and lecturer at Boston University School of Law. “The concern is what precedent this will set. What will be the effect on innovation?” The stakes for both parties were high. While Google offers most of its products free and makes most of its revenue from advertising, Oracle operates more like a traditional commercial software company and makes its money by selling software licenses. Google and other champions of open-source software have argued that a ruling for Oracle would reward litigious behavior and slow the pace of innovation by forcing companies to spend more time and resources constantly ensuring they were not in violation of intellectual property — time that could be spent building new products and services.