 BERLIN — European privacy regulators said Wednesday that they were considering reopening their inquiries into Google’s collection of personal e-mails and Web searches for its Street View service. The move came after revelations that the activity had not been a lone programmer’s error, and that others at the company had been told about it. Many regulators in Europe feel misled by Google in the matter, said Jacob Kohnstamm, a Dutch regulator who is the chairman of the top European privacy panel. He called for a stronger global response. “It is time for data protection authorities around the world to work together to hold the company accountable,” Mr. Kohnstamm said. Google executives, he said, had reassured European lawmakers, often in personal appearances, that the data collection, which was illegal in Europe, was unintentional and the work of one engineer working secretly. Google’s collection of 600 gigabytes of personal data — including e-mails, photos, Web histories and passwords — from Wi-Fi routers worldwide was first uncovered in Germany in 2010. It prompted a series of inquiries in Europe and elsewhere. The data was obtained from unsuspecting households as cars photographing the streets for the company’s Street View project drove by. All the overseas reviews except two in Germany — one regulatory, one criminal — were settled after Google apologized and blamed an error by the programmer for the incident. “We had been told that it was a simple mistake,” said Johannes Caspar, the data protection commissioner for Hamburg, whose investigation first brought the illegal collection of Internet data to light. “But now, we are learning that this wasn’t a mistake and that people within the company knew this information was being collected. That puts it in a totally different light.” His office is still investigating, he said. In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission released a heavily redacted report on its inquiry, finding that Google had broken no American laws but had obstructed its investigation. Last Saturday, Google made available a largely unredacted version of the report that offered a fuller picture of what had happened. The unredacted report showed that the programmer, a Google engineer who lives in Palo Alto, Calif., told his colleagues in 2007 and 2008 that his software program would collect the so-called Internet payload data from unencrypted Wi-Fi routers. A Google spokesman in Hamburg on Wednesday repeated the company’s previous statements: “While we disagree with some of the statements made in the document, we agree with the F.C.C.’s conclusion that we did not break the law. We hope that we can now put this matter behind us.” Privacy regulators in Britain and in France said they would review the F.C.C. report to determine whether further action was called for. The French regulator, the National Commission for Computing and Liberties, or CNIL, is leading a European review of Google’s new global data privacy policy, announced in January, which combines data collected from several Google services. It is currently analyzing Google’s responses to 69 questions the French regulator sent the company this year. A person with knowledge of the review said it was likely that the French agency would include new questions about Google’s collection of Wi-Fi data. In the United States, regulators had a milder reaction. At the Federal Trade Commission, which closed an investigation into Street View in late 2010 after the company asserted that the collection of data had been inadvertent, a spokeswoman said there were no plans to re-examine the issue. A spokeswoman for George Jepsen, the Connecticut attorney general, who is leading a multistate investigation of Street View, repeated earlier declarations that it was “active and ongoing.” Google said last week that the Justice Department had cleared it of wiretapping. Both Google and the Justice Department declined to release the department’s May 2011 letter closing the investigation. Mr. Caspar, the German regulator, said he thought that his European colleagues who had already settled with Google would have a hard time legally reopening their cases. Even the German criminal investigation could be thwarted by jurisdictional obstacles, he said. But Mr. Kohnstamm, the head of the top European privacy panel, known as the Article 29 Group, and the chairman of the Dutch Data Protection Authority, said that the new disclosures would be a topic of discussion among European regulators attending a convention in Luxembourg. “We will certainly discuss the matter,” he said. “My first reaction is, this is a bloody shame.” Mr. Kohnstamm recalled how in 2010, Google’s global privacy counsel, Peter Fleischer, spoke at a hearing in the Netherlands on the incident. “Peter Fleischer made it pretty clear in his oral statement and in writing that it was the mistake of one single guy working at Google who had made a stupid mistake,” Mr. Kohnstamm said. “But apparently, it wasn’t a mistake at all. “In a political sense,” Mr. Kohnstamm continued, “that would be considered contempt of Parliament and would mean the end of the career for the person responsible.” The unauthorized collection of Internet payload data, which the F.C.C. determined was not illegal in the United States, is a violation of European law, Mr. Kohnstamm said. Enforcement of privacy law in Europe is done on a national level, although a proposed revision to the European Data Protection Directive, which will not be completed until 2013 at the earliest, would give national regulators the power to fine violators up to 2 percent of annual sales. Based on Google’s 2011 results, such a fine would amount to $758 million. Under existing law, European privacy regulators can impose only limited fines on global technology companies, even in egregious cases. The engineer at the center of the controversy, Marius Milner, lives in the United States, which could complicate efforts by German prosecutors to question him. The engineer invoked his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination and refused to speak with officials at the F.C.C.