 WHEN I checked into the Hotel Ritter Durbach in the middle of the Black Forest, it was 11:15 p.m. in Hong Kong. I knew this thanks to five unusual all-white cuckoo clocks, decorated with birds and thunderbolts, that hung on the wall behind the reception desk. Each displayed the time of a different location: Amsterdam, Paris, London, Hong Kong and Durbach. Durbach, a German village with a population of about 4,000 people in this region that stretches for about 100 miles along the French border, is hardly Hong Kong or Paris. But the clocks are a witty nod to the conjoining of old and new that is making the Black Forest a reinvigorated destination. For centuries, the area, known locally as the Schwarzwald, has been the source of many of Germany’s most famous clichés: cherry-topped cakes, smoked ham and, yes, cuckoo clocks. But things in the Black Forest are on the move. It has become home to chefs successfully celebrating and updating traditional German gastronomy; in the small village of Baiersbronn alone there are three chefs who have amassed a total of seven Michelin stars. Hotel and restaurant interiors have been spruced up and modernized. New and notable architecture is cropping up in historic family-owned vineyards. And then there are the clocks. The street artist Stefan Strumbel gained nationwide renown a few years ago when he started recreating traditional cuckoo clocks with bright colors and provocative symbols like skulls and grenades. More recently, he attracted attention on the international scene; Karl Lagerfeld is a fan: a Strumbel clock is hanging on the wall of the designer’s Paris library. (Mr. Strumbel is also responsible for the clock display at the Hotel Ritter.) “It’s all about reinventing the idea of heimat,” said Mr. Strumbel, who grew up in and lives in Offenburg, a small city in the center of the region. Heimat is a German word that roughly translates as heritage of place. Although the term was co-opted for a time by the Nazis, Mr. Strumbel said his generation is starting to reclaim it. For him it means “a feeling of security and happiness.” Part of that happiness comes from the sort of reinvention Mr. Strumbel has become notable for. In June he made news in religious and art circles by renovating a small Catholic chapel in the tiny Black Forest village of Goldscheuer, near the French border. Two years ago the chapel was so poorly attended that church officials considered closing it down; now on any given Sunday the pews are filled with locals, young and old, as well as curious tourists. From the outside it is nondescript: a modest structure painted white with a neighboring bell tower. But inside, along with the original 1960s-era stained-glass windows, hangs a wooden crucifix lighted by pink LEDs and a 20-foot-high Madonna and Child created with spray paint. On several visits to the region, I discovered other local visionaries who are reinvigorating, without uprooting, old traditions: Markus Dirr is a chef and fourth-generation butcher who experiments with traditional charcuterie, adding poppy seeds and cumin to dried hams; Alexander Stein, the owner of Black Forest Distillers, has been producing an artisanal gin called Monkey 47 out of a small centuries-old distillery for the last two years. At Schloss Staufenberg, a granite castle perched above Durbach on top of a high hill encircled with cultivated old vines, Prince Bernhard von Baden, whose family owns the property, is yet another local (his family traces back more than 1,000 years in the region) making a mark. The prince and his family are overseeing the construction of an intimate restaurant at the castle that will rest on top of the family wine cellars. The space will be minimalist, constructed of the same materials as the building. “We don’t want a face-lift,” he said later by phone. “And we don’t want to remove the patina of history. But we will use the contemporary language of keeping things simple and genuine.” An hour south of Schloss Staufenberg, at the 140-acre family estate of Franz Keller, beloved by German wine lovers for its Spätburgunder (the local term for pinot noir), something even more modern will soon be rising up out of the vineyards. A sinuous three-story building of wood, glass and cement designed by the area architecture firm Geis &amp; Brantner will be the new home of the Franz Keller winemaking operation, as well as a new restaurant. That the region shares its forestland with rich agricultural soil, ideal for vineyards and crops, is one reason the Black Forest has cultivated such a strong culinary scene. Another, according to Harald Wohlfahrt, the proprietor of the much celebrated restaurant Schwarzwaldstube, which was awarded three Michelin stars, is its proximity to France. “Before, tourists would come to the Black Forest for a holiday and then eat in the Alsace,” Mr. Wohlfahrt said, between greeting guests. “It made the chefs here have to ramp up their efforts.” The Schwarzwaldstube is an example of a classic upscale Black Forest restaurant, with its formal and impeccable service and heavily French-influenced cooking technique. And there is plenty beyond the award winners, in part thanks to the area’s culinary bounty. When the star English chef Heston Blumenthal came to visit the Black Forest for an episode of his television show, he skipped the Michelin starred spots and instead headed for the kitchen at the Spielweg hotel in the municipality of Münstertal. “He filled a boar’s head with 500 euros worth of truffles and did a meal inspired by the fairy tale of Snow White,” recalled Karl-Josef Fuchs, the hotel’s owner and chef and a pioneer of the region’s locavore scene. (Mr. Fuchs makes his own cheeses and often hunts for the restaurant’s venison and boar.) Although the Spielweg, a historic inn in a traditional farm-style complex, hasn’t changed its interiors much in the last century (except perhaps for the collection of illustrations by the artist Tomi Ungerer, who has been a regular guest), it attracts a cutting-edge crowd in June who commute from the Art Basel fair, held about 45 minutes away. There are new spots as well. Mr. Strumbel’s favorite is the Wirthaus Schwanen, an unpretentious pub-like restaurant in the small town of Bühl where all the dishes are made from locally sourced ingredients. The restaurant also caters weekly lunches for USM, a local company that produces renowned contemporary furniture. The Ponyhof, above the village of Gengenbach, is a simple rustic cafe that on any given weekend is filled with locals eating schnitzel and venison dishes. But thanks to the ambitious three sons of the owner and chef, Tobias Wussler, a far more international crowd may soon arrive. The middle son, also named Tobias, has done a stint at Noma, the acclaimed Copenhagen restaurant, and the youngest, Marco, is spending time in the kitchen at Steirereck, a legendary and innovative spot in Vienna. The oldest, Sebastian, who lives in Berlin, founded Chefs Talk, a blog for chefs. In three years, the sons hope to open a new restaurant adjacent to the original. During a recent visit to Ponyhof, Sebastian Wussler pointed out an older timber-framed building along one side of the restaurant’s terrace. “That’s where the new restaurant will be,” he said. “My brothers will be cooking modern gourmet dishes with local ingredients. And my father will stay where he is and keep making really good sausages.” IF YOU GO WHERE TO STAY Over the next few months, the centrally situated Hotel Ritter Durbach (An der badischen Weinstrasse — Tal 1, Durbach; 49-78-193-230; ritter-durbach.de; rates from 80 euros, $96 at $1.23 to the euro, per person) will add 40 rooms and more space to its spa. In the south of the region, the Spielweg (Spielweg 61, Münstertal; 49-76-367-090; spielweg.com; single room, including breakfast, starts at 97 euros) is in an old farm complex with 47 upscale rooms and suites. The restaurant is one of the area’s best; the chef and owner, Karl-Josef Fuchs, offers classes in baking and sausage making. A renovated 700-year-old inn in the middle of a mountainous area crisscrossed with hiking and cross-country trails, the Halde (Halde 2, Oberried; 49-76-029-4470; halde.com; rooms from 124 euros per person including breakfast) includes a chic modern spa and an excellent restaurant. WHAT TO DO The two-year-old Alternative Wolf and Bear Park (Rippoldsauer Strasse 36/1, Bad Rippoldsau- Schapbach; 49-78-39-910-380; baer.de), in the north, is the best and safest way to experience wildlife in the Black Forest. Have lunch at the nearby Gasthaus Tanne (Wolfacher Strasse 41, Bad Rippoldsau-Schapbach; 49-78-39-484), a rustic tavern restaurant, that offers seasonal fare. WHERE TO EAT The owners of the Wirthaus Schwanen (Schwanenstrasse 4, Bühl; 49-72-23-979-1530; schwanen-buehl.de) use only local farmers and producers for their menu of traditional German dishes like spätzle and schnitzel. Everything about Harald Wohlfahrt’s Schwarzwaldstube (Tonbachstrasse 237; 49-74-42-492-665; traube-tonbach.de) is old school, from its heavy wooden carved ceiling to its cheese cart and formal service. Joerg Sackmann, a protégé of Mr. Wohlfahrt, heads the kitchen at the Restaurant Schlossberg in the Wellness Hotel Sackmann (Baiersbronn; 49-74-472-890; hotel-sackmann.de). His innovative Mediterranean-inspired cuisine recently won him a Michelin star. Café Goldene Krone (Wagensteigstrasse 10; 49-76-69-939-9988; cafe-goldene-krone.de), an intimate cafe in the tiny mountaintop village of St. Margen, is a regionally financed women’s cooperative where the area’s best female bakers and chefs came together to offer their best traditional recipes.