 When he is not pedaling a racing bike around London, Vittorio Colao, the chief executive of Vodafone, has been successfully steering the telecommunications company through its own turbulent Tour de Europe. As his competitors have sought growth in distant markets, the Harvard-educated Mr. Colao has guided Vodafone to strong earnings by streamlining its holdings in mature regions while increasing its existing presence in India, Turkey, South Africa and other emerging areas. Mr. Colao’s two immediate predecessors, Chris Gent and Arun Sarin, transformed Vodafone into a global power through major acquisitions in Asia, the United States and Africa. But where results did not meet expectations, Mr. Colao has pulled the company back, analysts said. “He has played a smarter game of reducing exposure in markets where they are not doing particularly well,” said John Delaney, an analyst at International Data Corp. in London. “He’s made the right calls so far.” On Tuesday, thanks largely to Mr. Colao’s repositioning of the group, Vodafone was expected to report rising profit and sales in the quarter ended March 31, the last quarter of the company’s financial year. Mr. Colao took over Vodafone in July 2008, succeeding Mr. Sarin, the AirTouch executive who led Vodafone for five years. The son of an Italian Carabinieri officer, Mr. Colao took over a far-flung operator network facing tough decisions in Japan, France and Poland, where Vodafone held minority stakes in carriers with uncertain prospects. Vodafone’s restless shareholders were also clamoring for a bigger financial return, including a share of profit from Verizon Wireless, the U.S. mobile market leader in which it owns a 45 percent share. Verizon had not paid a dividend since 2005. Almost four years later, Mr. Colao presides over a leaner, more forward-looking Vodafone, with 398 million customers in 30 countries, including operators in the fast-growing markets of India, Turkey and South Africa. “I think investors are generally happy with him,” said Nick Delfas, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in London. “The company has rationalized its portfolio. Vodafone has begun taking market share in Germany and Britain.” “The key question,” he continued, “is whether Vodafone can build a longer-term premium in Europe.” Based 60 miles, or about 100 kilometers, west of London in Newbury, England, Vodafone no longer owns operators in Japan, France, Sweden and Poland, having sold its minority stakes for a combined £10.7 billion, or $16.9 billion. Mr. Colao has forged compromises with other rivals. In Australia, Vodafone merged its carrier with one owned by Hutchison 3 in a 50-50 venture. In 2009, Vodafone started sharing parts of its networks in Germany, Ireland, Britain and Spain with Telefónica of Spain, its biggest competitor in Europe. Mr. Colao also appeased shareholders by selling the company’s 3.2 percent stake in China Mobile, the world’s largest operator by number of subscribers, for £4.3 billion in 2010. And in January, after a seven-year hiatus, Vodafone received a $4.5 billion dividend from Verizon Wireless, most of which it passed on to Vodafone shareholders. Mr. Colao was born in Brescia, Italy, and received an undergraduate degree in business at Bocconi University before obtaining his M.B.A. in the 1980s at Harvard. He spent nearly a decade in Milan as a telecommunications industry analyst at McKinsey before taking a position at Omnitel Pronto Italia, an Italian mobile operator, in 1996. He came to Vodafone three years later when the company bought Omnitel and served in a variety of top management jobs, as chief executive for Southern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and eventually as deputy chief executive before succeeding Mr. Sarin. Despite Mr. Colao’s calibrated tinkering, Vodafone, like its other rivals, Telefónica, France Télécom and Deutsche Telekom, faces a thorny predicament that restructuring or the flight into lower-cost, emerging markets cannot overcome: The company’s mainstay, its revenue from voice calls, is falling faster than mobile data revenue is growing. In the quarter that ended Dec. 31, the last one reported by the company, Vodafone’s global revenue from voice service, which accounted for 54 percent of its total revenue, fell 9.3 percent from a year earlier, to £6.3 billion.  Revenue from mobile data rose 21.8 percent, but the total was just £1.57 billion, up from £1.33 billion. Growth in short text messaging, which generates 11 percent of revenue, is also slowing as smartphone users opt for Web-based applications like Whatsapp to avoid the charges. In the quarter, text message revenue rose 4.3 percent, to £1.33 billion. The rate of growth was down from nearly 7 percent three quarters earlier. The economic challenges in Europe, where Vodafone still generates 70 percent of its global revenue, are only compounding the structural problems facing the industry as it makes the transition from voice to a business built on digital data. Part of the weakness can be traced to Southern Europe, where sales in key Vodafone markets like Italy, Spain and Greece have fallen during the euro crisis. In Western Europe, mobile service revenue for the industry is expected to decline to $166 billion by 2017 from $177 billion this year, while revenue in Central and Eastern Europe will be flat at $58 billion, according to Strategy Analytics, an industry research group. “We are not seeing anything to suggest a revenue upside in the region,” said Philip Kendall, an analyst with Strategy Analytics in Milton Keynes, England. “It is a competitive and saturated market, and operators are also getting hit by intense regulatory pressure.” Vodafone’s European challenge begins right at its door in Britain, one of the Continent’s most competitive markets with five network operators and virtual resellers. Vodafone had been the market leader, but is now the No.3 operator as measured by subscribers, trailing Everything Everywhere, the joint venture of Deutsche Telekom and France Télécom, and O2 U.K., a unit of Telefónica. To address the downturn, Mr. Colao has sought to accelerate the rollout of mobile data services across Europe, and has taken an active role in urging European lawmakers to loosen regulatory controls over pricing. A Vodafone spokesman, Simon Gordon, said Mr. Colao was not available for an interview for this article. But during a brief interview in February at the Mobile World Congress, an industry convention in Barcelona, Mr. Colao said European lawmakers should ease regulation on mobile operators to keep the industry growing. He questioned whether lawmakers needed to continue and lower the Continent’s system of retail price caps on mobile phone roaming charges for voice, texting and mobile data, which were first put into place in 2007. “We should regulate less and let the European telecommunications industry grow again,” Mr. Colao said. “The industry must be able to make money and must be able to reinvest.” Mr. Colao’s comments drew a sharp rebuke a day later from the European commissioner for telecommunications, Neelie Kroes, who defended her proposal to lower roaming price caps. European lawmakers eventually agreed to sharply reduce mobile phone roaming charges over the next three years. But amid the war of words with Brussels, Vodafone — and other operators in Europe — won a key concession when lawmakers set the Continent’s first retail price cap for mobile data roaming at 70 euro cents per megabyte, a multiple of its domestic cost. The fees, which will fall to 20 cents per megabyte by July 2015, may help sustain Mr. Colao and Vodafone as they weather a turbulent period in Europe.