 WASHINGTON — Continuing its crackdown on Internet privacy violations, the Federal Trade Commission charged Myspace on Tuesday with violating federal law by breaching its promise not to share users’ personal information, including their Web browsing habits, with advertising companies. The advertisers that tracked the online browsing habits of Myspace users were not charged, reflecting a general lack of laws governing online privacy. On Wednesday, the Senate Commerce committee will question officials from the F.T.C. and the Obama administration about their recent proposals to require companies to obtain consumers’ permission to be tracked online. The F.T.C. asserted that from January 2009 through June 2010, and again from October 2010 through October 2011, Myspace, a social media Web site, transmitted information, including internal identification numbers of users, and their ages and genders, to outside ad networks that served ads to Myspace. Using that information, the F.T.C. said, third parties could obtain the user’s name and other personal information and use a file placed on the user’s computer to view a history of Web sites the user had visited. That violated the privacy policy that Myspace disseminated beginning in 2008, which said that the company “will not share your personally identifiable information with third parties unless you have given Myspace permission to do so.” Without admitting or denying the F.T.C.’s charge, Myspace agreed to a tentative consent order announced Tuesday that requires it to obey its stated privacy policies, to establish comprehensive privacy controls and procedures and to submit to audits of its actions every other year for 20 years. News Corporation sold Myspace in June to Specific Media, an advertising group based in Irvine, Calif., and Justin Timberlake, the musician. In a statement, Specific Media said it had settled the case “to put any questions regarding Myspace’s preacquisition practices behind us.” Some of the period covered by the accusations came after Specific Media bought Myspace. Myspace has about 25 million users in the United States, according to comScore; Facebook has about 159 million users. The F.T.C. does not have the legal authority to assess penalties for violations of the Federal Trade Commission Act, like those reported against Myspace. If the commission accepts the consent order after a 30-day public comment period, later violations of the agreement could be punished with a civil penalty of up to $16,000 for each transgression. “One of our first actions after acquiring Myspace was to thoroughly examine the company’s business practices and, where applicable, make improvements,” Specific Media said. “A major focus of this review was to ensure that Myspace delivered advertisements to consumers in a manner that safeguarded their privacy.” The agreement with Myspace is similar to one the F.T.C. made in November with Facebook over its sharing of users’ information with advertisers and making public information that it had said would be kept private. The F.T.C. settled a similar privacy case with Google over the start-up of its Google Buzz network last year. The commission is now investigating whether Google violated that agreement when it reportedly circumvented privacy controls on Apple’s Safari browser on computers and mobile devices, according to people close to the investigation who spoke on condition of anonymity so as not to prejudice the inquiry. Aspects of those settlements and the F.T.C.’s other Internet privacy actions are likely to come up at a Senate Commerce committee hearing on Wednesday. The F.T.C. chairman, Jon Leibowitz, and Commissioner Maureen Ohlhausen will testify about aspects of an F.T.C. report issued in March. It recommended privacy legislation and urged Internet companies to build Do Not Track safeguards into their products. Cameron F. Kerry, general counsel for the Commerce Department, will also testify about the Obama administration’s privacy framework, released in February, which included a privacy “bill of rights.” The F.T.C. on Tuesday also filed charges in Federal District Court in San Antonio seeking a civil contempt ruling against the Billing Services Group, a San Antonio company that provides services to telephone companies. The commission said that from 2006 to 2010, Billing Services violated a court order against placing false charges on consumers’ phone bills. The charges were typically for so-called enhanced services, like voice mail, streaming video and identity theft protection, that consumers had not authorized, the F.T.C. said. According to the F.T.C.’s complaint, Billing Services placed more than $70 million in fake charges on phone bills; it refunded some of the charges, but the F.T.C. is seeking $52.6 million in additional refunds. In 1999, the company signed an agreement with the F.T.C. promising to refrain from unauthorized billing, misrepresenting services and charges to consumers and providing billing services to vendors who failed to clearly disclose the terms of their services. The Billing Services Group strongly disputed the F.T.C.’s assertions. It said it had cooperated fully with the Federal Bureau of Investigation in its investigation of the company that it said was at fault, a company it described as a former client but that was not a part of the company. “Throughout the investigation, the company was repeatedly informed that B.S.G. was not suspected of any wrongdoing,” the Billing Services Group said in a news release. “The F.T.C. plainly misunderstands B.S.G.’s business, and declined our invitation to meet with them about our due diligence processes before filing its motion.”