 Eastman Kodak lost a ruling in a two-year legal fight against Apple and Research in Motion over a patent for digital image-preview technology. The decision may hurt the value of assets Kodak is selling. RIM and Apple did not violate Kodak’s rights because the patent was invalid, said Thomas Pender, a judge for the United States International Trade Commission, in a notice posted on the agency’s Web site. Kodak said it would appeal the findings with the six-member commission in Washington, which has the power to block imports of products that infringe on American patents. Kodak, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in January, contends Apple already owes it more than $1 billion in damages for infringement of this and other digital capture patents, according to a bankruptcy court filing this month. Kodak has said a victory in the case may force RIM and Apple to pay for licensing and bolster the value of patent portfolios the company is seeking to sell. The judge’s recommendation “represents a preliminary step in a process that we are confident will conclude in Kodak’s favor,” Timothy Lynch, Kodak’s chief intellectual property officer, said in a statement. “Kodak has invested billions of dollars to develop its pioneering digital imaging technology, and we intend to protect these valuable assets.” The company’s two digital patent portfolios may be its most valuable assets. The patent in Monday’s ruling is part of a portfolio of more than 1,100 related to digital capture that Kodak is selling. The other collection covers imaging systems and services. Together, the technology is valued at $2.21 billion to $2.57 billion, based on an estimate by 284 Partners L.L.C., a patent advisory firm cited in a debtor’s motion it filed before a United States bankruptcy court in January. The disputed patent, which Kodak claims is used in all modern cameras, covers a feature that previews low-resolution versions of a moving image while recording still images at a high resolution. Higher resolution requires more processing power and storage space. Samsung Electronics and LG Electronics have already paid $964 million in settlements to Kodak for using the technology. Judge Pender said that the aspect of the patent that was in the case covered an obvious variation of earlier inventions. He did say that if the patent were valid, BlackBerry devices and the Apple iPhone 3G would infringe it, while the iPhone 3GS and iPhone 4 would not. A different judge at the agency found the patent valid and infringed by Samsung, “whose products are similar to those offered by Apple and RIM,” Mr. Lynch said.