 Sometimes conferences have Golden Ages. Think of the Big East's three Final Four teams in 1985. Or the SEC’s clobbering everyone in recent years in college football. The Pac-12 is currently not in a Golden Age. Last winter it was shut out of the college football championship playoff. But it confidently sent out nine of its members into lesser bowl games. They went 1-8, with the only win coming from Utah in the Heart of Dallas Bowl. Washington State managed to lose the Holiday Bowl to Michigan State by 42-17. The basketball season has not been delightful either. Three U.C.L.A. players were arrested in China for shoplifting, leading to an intervention by President Trump. The F.B.I. reportedly launched an investigation into six-figure payments to land star recruits, with Arizona among those programs implicated. The university surprised many when it retained Coach Sean Miller despite the allegations, which Miller continues to deny. The Pac-12 managed to get only three teams in the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament, two of them in play-in games. And U.S.C. was by consensus the best team left out. Those play-in games did not go well. Arizona State lost to an undermanned Syracuse team, and U.C.L.A. fell to St. Bonaventure, which last won in the tournament in 1970. Surely, fourth-seeded Arizona, ranked No. 12 in the country, would shake off scandal and save the conference’s honor? Or maybe it would lose to, ouch, Buffalo, 89-68. It was an ignominious end to the conference’s presence in the tournament. It was the worst Pac-12 performance in the tournament since that golden year for the Big East, 1985, when the Pac-10 went 0-4 in first-round games. In 1981, the Pac-10 was 0-3, despite having 1, 2 and 3 seeds. But there is some good news, Pac-12 fans: Oregon State is No. 1 in the country in baseball, and Washington No. 1 in softball. Perhaps their postseason luck will be better. And when all else fails, there’s always water polo. U.C.L.A. won the title this season. It was the Pac-12’s 20th straight championship in the sport.