 PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — Cooks scurried in and out of the kitchen carrying containers of pork ribs, stewed beef, and rice and beans. Behind a display case of Latin American pastries, a worker hurried through coffee orders. The rapid-fire banter of Caribbean Spanish filled the air. It was the lunchtime rush at the cafeteria of the Bravo Supermarket here, but one loyal customer in particular — the Mets infielder Jose Reyes — caught the eye of the head chef, who hugged him as he took his place in line yet again, like so many Mets from Latin America hungry for home cooking. “It’s been a while since I’ve had some good rabo,” Reyes, who is from the Dominican Republic, said in Spanish, practically licking his chops at the meal of stewed oxtail that awaited. “You feel better eating your food, man,” he added. Opened in 2005, the supermarket has done more than provide a dose of home comfort for players, essential as they find that. It has, at times, also offered free food for strapped athletes, occasional employment or even a cheap place to stay through Luis Merejo, an owner of the supermarket and a former baseball player himself. For the two months of spring training, they come to Bravo. When they play for the Mets’ minor league team here, they also come to Bravo. When they return to the Mets’ facility to rehabilitate injuries, they come to Bravo. “They’ve all grown up with our food,” Merejo said. Carlos Beltran and Carlos Delgado, Mets of a past era who were born in Puerto Rico, ate here, as did their teammate Luis Castillo, who is Dominican. Reyes has visited regularly each spring since it opened. Juan Lagares, a Mets outfielder from the Dominican Republic, loves the sancocho (beef and vegetable stew). Minor leaguers and team officials also frequent the place. “Even when I didn’t have a car earlier in my career, teammates used to take me there,” Lagares said in Spanish. The tradition was also handed down by teammates to shortstop Amed Rosario, who first visited Bravo in 2012, the year he signed with the Mets at age 16 and attended an instructional league for minor leaguers. “It’s home,” Rosario said in Spanish. “Every Dominican likes to eat their food, and this is the closest to my mother’s cooking. It makes me feel better. Sometimes you just want to eat your rice and beans, and Dominican-style meat.” During spring training, Rosario, now 22, rents a studio apartment from Merejo, who is also Dominican and speaks Spanish, and listens to his counsel. Rosario’s father said he trusts Merejo as another caretaker for his son. The hands behind the food are led by Francisca Dominguez, the Bravo cafeteria head chef who is from the Dominican Republic, which has produced the most foreign-born players in Major League Baseball. Dominguez fields food orders directly by phone from players. “I always find time in between several things for them,” she said. “I love my job. I love cooking for them.” Dominguez’s assistant, Eva Macías, is Mexican. The woman who makes coladas, Cuban style espresso, is Cuban. There is to-order mofongo, a Puerto Rican dish of mashed fried plantains. There are tequeños, fried breaded cheese sticks from Venezuela. There is a stand where churros — filled with chocolate, dulce de leche, pineapple, cream cheese or guava — are made. Each spring, Reyes, 34, places an order of habichuelas con dulce (sweet creamed beans), a popular dessert in the Dominican Republic around Easter. Bravo is a supermarket chain with at least 60 stores in Florida and the Northeast, including the Bronx and New Jersey, in areas with a high concentration of Latinos. The Port St. Lucie location has perhaps fed the most professional baseball players. On the advice of his brother, who already lived in Port St. Lucie, Merejo opened this Bravo franchise to cater to the Latino community growing about an hour north of West Palm Beach and two hours north of Miami. About a fifth of Port St. Lucie’s population of 175,000 is Latino, according to the United States census. Merejo, 51, moved into the supermarket business soon after his baseball career ended. Born in San Francisco de Macorís, a city in the northern Dominican Republic, he moved to Washington Heights in Manhattan at age 8. He played five seasons in the California Angels’ farm system, but came to realize that there wasn’t much of a future in the major leagues for a side-arming relief pitcher whose fastballs only reached the high 80s. “I don’t want to waste my life in this,” he said. “I wanted to have a career.” So Merejo quit baseball at 24 and bounced among jobs before deciding to move into the food business like his father, who owned three Dominican restaurants in Manhattan. With savings, a bank loan and a business partner, Cesar Ramirez, they opened a Bravo franchise in Paterson, N.J. Merejo and Ramirez later brought Bravo franchises to Florida, starting in Orlando and eventually in Port St. Lucie. As word of mouth spread, Mets officials and players came to eat. “I know where they’re coming from and I know what it’s like being away from home and not eating what you want,” said Merejo, whose 6-foot-4 frame and New York accent stood out as he walked through the supermarket. Merejo has employed former players at the supermarket, including the former Detroit Tigers infielder Rene Capellan, 39, and the former Minnesota Twins infielder Jonatan Hinojosa, 25, who both work in the meat department and rent rooms in Merejo’s house where Rosario also stays. The renovated four-bedroom house is a short drive from the supermarket and the Mets’ spring training complex and includes a batting cage with lights in the backyard that Merejo’s 11-year-old son and Rosario use. Rosario stayed at the house for spring training, living in a garage converted into a studio apartment. It doesn’t have a full kitchen and Rosario, of course, doesn’t need one. After a recent practice, Rosario sat at his locker in the clubhouse and called Merejo to place a special order of grilled fish with rice and beans. “Hey, Luis, I’m headed there,” Rosario said in Spanish. “I’m hungry.” Preferring quiet, Rosario often eats in a back room of the supermarket accessible only to employees. Hanging from the walls of the room are the signed jerseys of Ricky Bones, the Mets’ bullpen coach who is from Puerto Rico, and Rosario. But sometimes Rosario and his accompanying teammates sit in the cafeteria and listen to Merejo dispense advice or tell stories about his playing career and how he got started in the supermarket business. “He’s helped me a lot, not just with food, but with support, good advice and he always tells me to stay on the right path,” Rosario said. A large plate of Dominican-style rice and pigeon peas and fried plantains costs $4. Add meat for only a few more dollars. It’s a steal for minor leaguers who earn paychecks that pale in comparison to those that major leaguers receive. Yet if a player is struggling with money, the food at Bravo is often free. “Luis did that for everyone who couldn’t pay,” the Mets relief pitcher Jeurys Familia, who is from the Dominican Republic, said in Spanish. Reyes still eats often at Bravo, sometimes with Rosario and Lagares, and they get V.I.P. treatment. After a recent workout, Reyes and his assistant, Edgar Brito, came for lunch. Craving avocado with their lunch of rice and pigeon peas, plantains and oxtail, a large one was hurriedly brought to their table. After clearing his plate, Reyes smiled as he stood up to take another round of photos with fans. “I feel like I just ate five pounds,” he said.