 Boring interviews have been a hallmark of sports for decades. The art of the non-answer was undoubtedly developed as a defense mechanism — and it was perfected by Derek Jeter during his tenure with the Yankees — but every now and again players break out of their clichés and actually say something interesting. The N.B.A., where players seemingly have a good amount of leeway to speak their minds, has been on fire in the last few days, with several stars talking nearly as big as they play, providing some excitement to the first round of the postseason.  No one was more fired up than Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder, who seemed personally offended by the success Ricky Rubio had in the Utah Jazz’s win over the Thunder on Saturday. Rubio poured in 26 points to go with 11 rebounds and 11 assists, becoming the first Jazz player to record a triple-double in the playoffs since John Stockton did it in 2001.  “He made some shots,” Westbrook said on Sunday. “Too comfortable. But I’m going to shut that off next game, though. Guarantee that.” For emphasis, Westbrook included an expletive before the word off.  Rubio did not take the bait, telling reporters: “You’re taking this too personal. Of course he wants to play better. I want to play better too. That’s it.” [Get Marc Stein’s weekly N.B.A. insights delivered to your inbox.] The emotion from Westbrook clearly carried into Monday’s game, however, as he was so determined to harass Rubio that he picked up four fouls in the first half, three of which came against Rubio. At the time of Westbrook’s fourth foul, the Thunder were down only 50-49, but with their star guard somewhat hamstrung by foul trouble, things fell apart. The Jazz cruised to a 113-96 victory, and a 3-1 lead in the series.  Westbrook did manage to slow down Rubio’s scoring, but he was still effective, with 13 points, 6 rebounds and 8 assists in 34 minutes.  Faced with having failed to deliver on his promise, Westbrook made a hard left turn, claiming too big of a deal was being made about the matchup between him and Rubio.  “It was not about me or him,” Westbrook said. “Let’s get past that. We’re done with that.” The Jazz will look to close out the series on the road in Wednesday’s Game 5. While Westbrook provided the boldest words of the week so far — no matter how much they came back to bite him — he is far from alone in terms of talking a big game, and adding some spice for the assembled news media.  The Houston Rockets were leading by one point — 50-49 — at halftime of Game 4 of their playoff series against the Minnesota Timberwolves on Monday. It was already looking likely that the Rockets would improve to a 3-1 lead in the series after having dropped Game 3, but few could have predicted the offensive outburst that was about to occur.  By the time the brutal third quarter was completed, the Rockets had a 31-point lead by way of a 50-point quarter in which Harden, the overwhelming favorite for the N.B.A.’s Most Valuable Player Award, personally outscored the entire Timberwolves team, 22-20. The Rockets can finish the series with a win in Game 5 on Wednesday in Houston. Repeating his “Trust the Process” motto has been almost a tic for Embiid during his brief N.B.A. career, but his rhetoric took a notable turn on Monday when he was asked about the Philadelphia 76ers’ prospects. Instead of talking about plans for the future, and what the team might be capable of eventually, Embiid implied that the Process had shifted from building to succeeding.  It’s hard to take anything Embiid says at face value thanks to his love of humor and obfuscation, so the internet immediately began dissecting his words. Many assumed the line about not needing anybody else was a reference to the team’s recruitment of LeBron James, but regardless of what he was trying to imply, Embiid seems confident that his team’s 3-1 series lead over the Miami Heat is just the start of what will be a deep playoff run.  The 76ers can close out the Heat in Game 5 tonight. The Toronto Raptors came into the playoffs as the No. 1 seed in the Eastern Conference, and an immediate 2-0 lead over the Washington Wizards in the first round bolstered the team’s excitement. So much so that Drake, the rapper so synonymous with the Raptors that he is practically their mascot, got into a war of words with Wall, the Wizards’ star guard. Asked by reporters on Monday if he was looking forward to seeing Drake after the Wizards evened the series at two games apiece, Wall said “Yeah, you know I am. For sure.” Wall, who had a combined 55 points and 28 assists in the two victories in Washington, said he wished Drake had been there to see Washington’s comeback in person. “I told him to be here for Game 3,” he said. “He told me he was going to be here. He didn’t show up.” Wall did clarify that there were no hard feelings. “My arguments with him ain’t really about the game of basketball — we just be out there having fun,” he said. “But at the same time, we got a focus that we are trying to go in there and win Game 5. I want him to know that they weren’t going to sweep us.” The Wizards and Raptors will continue the series with Game 5 on Wednesday in Toronto.