 LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. — A month after delivering some public criticism of first base prospect Dominic Smith, Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson said he still believed in Smith’s future with the team. “We’re still very high on Dominic, some of my comments earlier in the off-season notwithstanding,” Alderson said on Sunday night, the eve of Major League Baseball’s annual winter meetings. In November, at the general managers’ meetings, Alderson was asked if Smith needed to win the first baseman’s job in spring training. “He didn’t win it in September, let’s put it that way,” Alderson said. Smith, the Mets’ first-round pick in 2013, has battled weight issues. He is probably a bit shorter than his listed height of six feet, and he weighed nearly 260 pounds at the end of the 2016 season. He reported to spring training last season 24 pounds lighter after eating healthier over the off-season, but he regained it during the season. “Dominic is going to have to be careful about his physical conditioning certainly over the next few years, if not throughout his career,” Alderson said last month. Smith earned a call-up to the major leagues in mid-August after hitting .330 with 16 home runs with Class AAA Las Vegas. But he struggled during his month and a half in the major leagues, hitting an underwhelming .198 with 49 strikeouts and a .658 on-base-plus-slugging percentage in 49 games. Smith’s late-season showing prompted the Mets to explore outside upgrades at first base. But the Mets, whose 2018 payroll is expected to drop from a 2017 opening day mark of $155 million, have targeted players who can play some first base and some outfield — free agents such Adam Lind, Howie Kendrick or the former Met Jay Bruce. Signing a player who could also play the outfield would give the Mets some insurance as Michael Conforto returns from a shoulder operation he had in September. Alderson said he did not expect Conforto to be ready for opening day. “We have to look at that cautiously,” Alderson said. “Not that he’s not making progress or anything like that, it’s just the time it may take.” Alderson suggested that he did not want to pursue an expensive, long-term first baseman who would limit Smith’s playing time. “Dominic is still very much in the mix,” Alderson said. “I wouldn’t expect us to do something that totally eliminates Dominic as a possibility. I’d be surprised if we did anything that precluded him from having an opportunity in spring training.” Alderson also reiterated the Mets’ desire to add a second baseman and relief help this off-season — either via trade or through free agency. But he indicated the club would not dig too deeply into its pockets for a middle reliever. “To the extent that the market gets overheated, I don’t think we’ll jump into the inferno,” he said.