 John Mara, the Giants co-owner, had pledged to work fast in hiring someone to steer a franchise that has gone off the rails this season. He ultimately turned to a familiar face, naming the former team executive Dave Gettleman as the Giants’ new general manager on Thursday. It has been an uncharacteristically chaotic season for the Giants, who, at 2-13, are having their worst year since 1974. On Dec. 4, Mara fired the coach, Ben McAdoo, and the general manager, Jerry Reese, who had helped the team win two Super Bowls, for the 2007 and 2011 seasons. But new problems have continued to pop up for the Giants. This week, the team suspended the second-year cornerback Eli Apple, who was a first-round draft pick, for the final game of the season because of what the Giants called a “pattern of behavior that is conduct detrimental to the team.” Mara brought in the former executive Ernie Accorsi as a consultant on the search for the franchise’s fourth general manager since 1979. The Giants have traditionally preferred to hire from within, and Gettleman worked for them from 1998 to 2012, mostly as the pro personnel director. This is the second time Accorsi has selected Gettleman as a general manager: Gettleman got the job with the Carolina Panthers in 2013 on Accorsi’s recommendation. The Panthers wound up going 40-23-1 during Gettleman’s tenure, which included a trip to the Super Bowl at the end of the 2015 season. The Panthers fired him in July — a move that took many by surprise. “Given where we are as a team, we thought it was important to bring in someone with experience as a general manager and a proven track record,” Mara and Steve Tisch, the Giants’ co-owner and chairman, said in a joint statement. “Dave’s experience is unparalleled. He did an outstanding job as general manager in Carolina, and he was vital to our success during his tenure here.” The interim general manager, Kevin Abrams, who previously worked alongside Gettleman, is expected to remain with the team. Gettleman, 66, is now assigned to fix a roster that many had believed capable of another playoff run this season. But injuries, locker-room disharmony and severe underachievement led to what Mara called a “perfect storm.” The biggest roster question that Gettleman faces is at quarterback. Eli Manning, the incumbent who was controversially benched by McAdoo midway through the season, is about to turn 37 and has indicated he is not ready to retire. But his disappointing play this season has given the Giants reason to seriously examine their options for the future. If they lose on Sunday, at home against the Washington Redskins, the Giants will be assured the No. 2 pick in the N.F.L. draft next spring. The last time the franchise had a chance to make a selection that high, in 1981, it came away with Lawrence Taylor, who is now in the Hall of Fame. Gettleman is considered a skilled talent evaluator. But the Giants have myriad shortcomings — at running back, offensive line and, with the issues surrounding Apple, even at defensive back. Another question facing Gettleman is whether to give a handsome contract extension to wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr., whose option to return to the team in 2018 was picked up though he missed most of the season with an ankle injury. Oh, and the team still needs to hire a head coach. But at least, as the end of a nightmarish season approaches, the Giants have one fewer vacancy to fill.