 EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — All of the quarterback intrigue that dominated the buildup to the N.F.L. draft, the silence and subterfuge and misdirection, somehow failed to ensnare the Giants, who did not tip their highest pick in 14 years so much as sprinkle clues about their intentions over the last four months. Their decision to take the versatile rusher Saquon Barkley of Penn State at No. 2 affirmed General Manager Dave Gettleman’s opinion, declared last week and reiterated Thursday night, that the perceived devaluing of a running back is a myth, and corroborated the team’s stated comfort with Eli Manning quarterbacking the team this season and, it seems, beyond. The prudence of that decision, and others that guided Gettleman to these conclusions, will be measured by the production of Barkley, the highest running back taken since Reggie Bush was the No. 2 pick in 2006, but more so by the development of every quarterback the Giants could have chosen as a potential successor to Manning. That group includes Sam Darnold of Southern California, who will play his home games in the same stadium as the Giants. The Jets’ quixotic quest for the next Joe Namath led them to use the No. 3 pick on Darnold, who becomes the franchise’s latest investment of precious draft capital toward snapping a hex at the sport’s most important position. By taking Barkley — an easy pick, Gettleman said — the Giants gifted the Jets a perfect situation: their choice of every remaining quarterback except Baker Mayfield of Oklahoma, whom Cleveland took at No. 1. In Darnold, listed at 6-foot-4 and 220 pounds, the Jets nab a mobile passer considered by many draft analysts as the safest in his class, even if he may not be ready to start right away. Darnold turns 21 in June. “I’ve told people this from the start: I think I can fit into any system,” he said. “If it’s different from U.S.C., it’s going to take me a couple of weeks to get used to. But I’m ready for it. I’m ready for the challenge. I’m ready to blend into the system and learn about my teammates.” Darnold threw 13 interceptions and lost nine fumbles last season — evoking Mark Sanchez, another turnover-prone quarterback from U.S.C. drafted high by the Jets — but General Manager Mike Maccagnan said Darnold’s upside far outweighs the giveaways. “Sometimes it’s trying to do too much, sometimes making the wrong reads — it’s things we can learn from,” Maccagnan said. By contrast, the Giants sound ready to immediately unleash Barkley, whom Gettleman called the best player in the draft. “I want to earn everything,” Barkley said. “If I’m not doing what’s needed to be done to get that starting job, then I don’t want it.” If Gettleman’s job is to balance the team’s long-term interests with its short-term competitiveness, picking Barkley theoretically does both. It diversifies the Giants’ offense under Manning, adding a star runner to complement the star receiver Odell Beckham Jr., while alleviating the transition of Manning’s eventual successor. But choosing Barkley also doubles down on Gettleman’s confidence that Manning, 37, can reverse his decline in the offensive system deployed by the new coach, Pat Shurmur. “If you have to try to make yourself fall in love with a player, it’s wrong,” Gettleman said, when asked whether Manning’s status tempted him to trick himself into wanting a quarterback. “You will never be happy with the pick.” With Barkley, listed at 6 feet and 233 pounds, Manning will be handing off to a back who can run as well as he can catch and return kicks. Last season with the Nittany Lions, he accounted for 1,903 yards from scrimmage and 21 touchdowns, and averaged 28.4 yards per kickoff return with two touchdowns. Before moving outside Allentown, Pa., Barkley grew up in the Bronx, where he cheered for the Jets, whose logo is tattooed in red on his father’s forearm and who might have been his ideal destination. In a different year, perhaps. But not this one, not with the Jets (again) committed to drafting a quarterback. Aside from the Jets, only three other teams have failed to make the playoffs in the last seven seasons: Chicago, Tampa Bay and Cleveland. The Bears and the Buccaneers identified their franchise quarterbacks in recent drafts, and the Browns, after years of dysfunction, believed they found theirs on Thursday, when they took Mayfield. The Jets, after a failed free-agent pursuit of Kirk Cousins, had been on the clock at No. 3 for nearly six weeks. Though they knew they would be drafting a quarterback, they did not know which one. They gained that position with a gambit as aggressive as it was desperate, surrendering picks No. 6, 37 and 49, plus a second-rounder next year, to Indianapolis for the right to move up three spots. Preparing to take his third quarterback in four drafts with the Jets, Maccagnan could not afford to sit at No. 6 and risk other needy teams, like Buffalo or Arizona, maneuvering ahead of him (the Bills and the Cardinals moved up Thursday night to take quarterbacks, with Josh Allen going to Buffalo at No. 7 and Josh Rosen to Arizona at No. 10). Maccagnan needed to be comfortable with, at worst, his third-rated quarterback. “We felt very good about the players that would be there,” Maccagnan said. Darnold joins the Jets at a pivotal time in the A.F.C. East, with Buffalo and Miami no closer to overtaking New England than the Jets are, and with the Patriots nearer to the end of the Tom Brady era than the beginning. The Jets’ chances of disrupting New England’s divisional supremacy, of contending season after season, depend on Darnold’s progress and aptitude for maximizing the talent around him. Darnold will get an opportunity to ascend the depth chart at once, competing with last year’s starter, 38-year-old Josh McCown, and Teddy Bridgewater, whom the Jets signed in free agency after he missed most of the past two seasons because of a knee injury. “We’re not going to throw him in there,” Coach Todd Bowles said. “But at the same time, we’re not going to hold him back, either.”