 PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — At the World Cup races late last month, Marcel Hirscher of Austria told his longtime American rival Ted Ligety that he was planning to skip the Alpine combined event at the Winter Olympics. Ligety laughed at Hirscher and told him he would see him at the race’s starting gate. Hirscher, ski racing’s most dominant athlete since 2011, has had a tangled relationship with the Olympics. For all his many accomplishments, which include a record six consecutive World Cup overall titles and 55 World Cup victories, an Olympic gold medal had eluded him, an outcome that vexed him after two previous Olympic appearances. It had gotten to the point that Hirscher preferred to make jokes about whether he would ever win a gold medal. “We have enough Olympic champions from Austria,” Hirscher said with a shrug of his shoulders when asked late last season about his expectations for the 2018 Games. But there is now one more Austrian Alpine Olympic champion and he is most certainly glad he showed up for the first Alpine event of the Pyeongchang Games. “I have my big gold medal,” Hirscher said with a wide grin late Tuesday after defeating Alexis Pinturault of France by 0.23 of a second in the Alpine combined, which includes one run of downhill and one run of slalom. Victor Muffat-Jeandet, Pinturault’s teammate, won the bronze medal. Asked how often he had been questioned about whether he would ever win at the Olympics, Hirscher answered, “I mean, every day, but now it’s over.” Hirscher’s victory came on a windblown day when he unexpectedly finished in 12th place in the morning downhill portion, which is not his strength. His specialty is the slalom and giant slalom events. But the gusting conditions had forced officials to shorten the downhill course, which benefited Hirscher because the downhill specialists did not have as long a distance to build a bigger lead on those that are more accomplished at slalom. Then, in the afternoon slalom stage, Hirscher was at his finest, vastly outperforming the field in the final 150 yards, where the racecourse became considerably steeper. And so the gap in Hirscher’s splendid racing résumé was filled, alleviating much of the pressure Hirscher was feeling at these Olympics, which he has called his last. Though just 28 years old, he has said he does not expect to be racing by 2022. But he could now win three gold medals at Pyeongchang. Hirscher’s victory was also the 115th Olympic Alpine medal for an Austrian skier, the most by any nation in any sport at the Winter Games. Ligety, a two-time Olympic champion who once dominated Hirscher in the giant slalom, was fifth on Tuesday, a notable result given that injuries have limited his ability to race in the last two seasons. Ligety seemed pleased to see his rival realize a milestone achievement. “He didn’t need it for people to know what an amazing skier he is,” Ligety said. “But, of course, you want to win at every level.”