 In a stunning reversal that called to mind a similar move made by his boss 18 years ago, Josh McDaniels, the offensive coordinator of the New England Patriots, reneged on his decision to become the head coach of the Indianapolis Colts. After a wild Tuesday that had the Colts publicly announce McDaniels as their coach hours before he changed his mind, McDaniels remained in his position with the Patriots. McDaniels, who guided an offense that saw Tom Brady lead the N.F.L. in passing yards at age 40, has been the Patriots’ offensive coordinator in nine of the last 12 seasons. His tenure, which included the team’s record-breaking 16-0 season in 2007, was broken up by a three-year sojourn in which he served as head coach of the Denver Broncos for two seasons and as the offensive coordinator of the St. Louis Rams for one. Reports emerged shortly after this regular season ended that McDaniels was going to be hired for the Indianapolis job once the Patriots’ season was over, and, sure enough, on Tuesday morning the Colts announced the hiring on Twitter. “We are excited to welcome Josh McDaniels, who has agreed to terms as our new coach,” the Colts said in a message that was posted at 10:59 a.m. Eastern but has since been deleted. The Colts went on to add several other Twitter posts about the coach’s imminent signing, including one announcing a time for an introductory news conference on Wednesday. But hours later, Adam Schefter of ESPN first reported that McDaniels, 41, had backed out of the agreement, and the Colts issued a statement at 8:35 p.m. confirming the decision. “After agreeing to contract terms to become the Indianapolis Colts’ new head coach, New England Patriots assistant coach Josh McDaniels this evening informed us that he would not be joining our team,” the statement said. “Although we are surprised and disappointed, we will resume our head coaching search immediately and find the right fit to lead our team and organization on and off the field.” The situation is similar to the decision by Bill Belichick, the Patriots’ current head coach, in 2000 when he was promoted to be head coach of the Jets after Bill Parcells stepped down. But at his introductory news conference, Belichick said that he had decided not to take the job. Belichick’s reversal had the added element of it happening in front of reporters, and it quickly became famous for his hastily written resignation letter, which was reported to have said simply, “I resign as the HC of the NYJ.” Belichick was subsequently named the coach of the Patriots and has been with the team since, leading them to eight Super Bowl appearances and five championships. At 65, with 23 years under his belt as a head coach in the N.F.L., Belichick has little left to prove. While he has not yet publicly discussed his retirement plans, he is not likely to be in the job for much longer. With Matt Patricia, New England’s defensive coordinator since 2012, having officially been named head coach of the Detroit Lions, McDaniels’s decision to stay with the Patriots makes him the closest thing the team has to an heir apparent. McDaniels is popular with players, all of whom refused to directly acknowledge his seemingly imminent departure after New England’s loss in Super Bowl LII on Sunday. McDaniels also chose not to discuss his future, instead focusing on the game itself. “I’m not talking about that tonight,” he said when asked what the Colts could anticipate from him as a head coach. He was asked again about the Colts job, and replied, “We just talked about this.” Before his change of heart, McDaniels had already begun building a coaching staff in Indianapolis. Multiple news media reports indicated several were already under contract, including Matt Eberflus, the linebackers coach of the Dallas Cowboys, who was expected to be named the Colts’ defensive coordinator. The coaches under contract would remain so even with McDaniels out of the picture. But Joe Judge, who has been running New England’s special teams since 2015 and was expected to follow McDaniels to Indianapolis, is now expected to remain with the Patriots.