 About a minute before tipoff at Madison Square Garden on Tuesday night, St. John’s Coach Chris Mullin walked toward midcourt and gave a mock shrug of his shoulders. It was that universal look of, “How did we end up here?” And then he embraced his foe for the evening, his foe for the ages, Patrick Ewing. It is Mullin’s home court, but Ewing will always remind him that his Knicks jersey is hanging from the arena’s rafters. It is Ewing’s first season as the coach of Georgetown, but Mullin won’t let him forget that his advice pushed Ewing toward accepting the job. So, yes, Mullin and Ewing have long since cooled the animus that existed between the rivals during their Big East playing days. But that did not dull the interest in Tuesday’s warm and fuzzy reunion. After they hugged, Mullin turned toward the stands and pointed to a spot five rows behind the St. John’s bench. There, the former St. John’s coach Lou Carnesecca, 93, caught the gesture, stood, and blew Ewing a kiss. Ewing, in turn, could not pass up the chance to rib Mullin for his dark suit. “I don’t think I’ve ever seen you in a tie,” Ewing said to him. The joviality would dissipate as soon as the ball was tipped, as soon as each man could melt into the flow of the game, fueled by the competitiveness that made them fierce adversaries first, and respected off-court friends later. They have some distance to travel before their teams will remind anyone of the squads that met that February night in 1985, St. John’s ranked No. 1 in the country and Georgetown No. 2, when the Garden sold out and a national television audience tuned in. But on this night they gave a respectable crowd a good show. The play was sloppy — the teams combined to shoot 4 of 23 from 3-point range in the first half — but excitement built toward the end as St. John’s fought back from an 8-point deficit with 4 minutes 34 seconds remaining and tied the score. But a 3-pointer by Georgetown’s Jessie Govan as the shot clock ticked down with 25 seconds left gave the Hoyas enough cushion to hold on, with a final score of 69-66. It was a fitting ending — Govan is Georgetown’s center, a position long synonymous with Ewing. Ewing, 55, said it never even crossed his mind to tell his team before the game what it should mean to play in the Garden. “I think they already know what playing here means to me,” Ewing said. “My body still aches from the years that I spent here.” As if to illustrate the point, his 7-foot frame nearly buckled a few minutes later as he stepped off the dais in the news conference room after the game. Mullin, 54, still plays pickup basketball, works out furiously, and looks as if he could scale the outside of the arena without a rope. But he is still feeling his way through his third season leading St. John’s. He has found his voice, after appearing somewhat disengaged on the sidelines at times during his first season. His team is more seasoned; three starters, Justin Simon, Tariq Owens, and Marvin Clark II, transferred to the program from other high-major schools. He has had a chance to recruit players that fit his tough-nosed, quick-paced style of play. The Red Storm is also small, prone to lapses in focus, and at times can appear allergic to making baskets. It is why the team has started Big East play without a win in five contests — the second time that has happened under Mullin. When he pledged to try to return St. John’s to prominence, there was a clear image in mind. He had helped the Red Storm go 31-4 in 1985, the best record in program history. But three of those losses were to Ewing and the Hoyas, including one in the Final Four. Perhaps the most memorable game was that February matchup, in which a grinning John Thompson, Georgetown’s coach, hid a sweater under his blazer as a friendly way of goading the knit-loving Carnesecca. The game became known as the “Sweater Game.” Georgetown won that one, too. They won a lot when Ewing was there as a player, and they’re starting to win a bit more with him as coach. The Hoyas started the season 8-0 and are now 2-3 in the conference, including a double-overtime loss to Butler. “He’s done a great job,” Mullin said of Ewing. “He’s got coaching experience. The one thing from his playing career and coaching career in the N.B.A., he’s a hard worker. Puts the time in. He’s got discipline, intensity, and he loves the game.” Ewing looked cool and comfortable on the sidelines. Mullin sweated bullets, kept a towel nearby, and pounded bottles of water. Just like it always was. The two coaches are trying to think positively about the future. For a night, the Garden crowd was allowed to reminisce.