 TORONTO — Two years ago, the former N.H.L. defenseman Chris Pronger was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame after a career ended, in part, by postconcussion symptoms. When he retired, he said, “My cognitive skills are a little suspect at times.” But in his induction speech, he did not mention his concussion history. Last year, Eric Lindros was inducted into the Hall, nine years after he had to retire at 34 because of a series of concussions. In his induction speech, Lindros did not directly mention his concussion history, instead referring to a “roller-coaster” journey that left him bitter at times and crediting his wife with teaching him to let go of negative feelings. Paul Kariya will be inducted into the Hall of Fame on Monday, seven years after postconcussion symptoms drove him out of the game. He does not plan to mention head injuries in his speech, either. A quiet and private person, Kariya has made it clear he does not want to be the public face of the sport’s concussion problems. In recent years, the discourse on head injuries in sports like football and hockey has become more public, sometimes laid bare in Hall of Fame ceremonies. N.F.L. players like linebacker Junior Seau and quarterback Ken Stabler were inducted posthumously into the Pro Football Hall of Fame. After their deaths, they were found to have had chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease believed to be caused by repeated hits to the head. The N.H.L. has not had to deal with a similar situation, and Lanny McDonald, the chairman of the Hockey Hall of Fame, said, “I don’t know if it will ever happen, but you can never say never.” McDonald said the ceremony was not the right time for the inductees to talk about concussions. The Pro Football Hall of Fame initially did not allow Seau’s daughter to speak at his induction ceremony in 2015; his 2012 death — a suicide — and a subsequent lawsuit against the N.F.L. loomed over the proceedings. “Everyone has equal opportunity to speak at the podium for their five minutes and say whatever they would like,” McDonald said. “We don’t coach them on it. But I think this is more of a celebration.” Though hockey players’ brains have not been studied as much as football players’, several hockey players have been found to have had C.T.E. after their deaths. More than 200 former N.H.L. players have sued the league, saying it should have done more to protect them from the dangers of head trauma. Unlike the N.F.L., which reached a settlement in a lawsuit by former players, the N.H.L. has not acknowledged a link between concussions and C.T.E. Kariya, 43, said his thoughts on concussions did not need to be reiterated in his Hall of Fame speech. “I’ve spoken about it since my first concussion back in 1997,” he said Friday after receiving his Hall of Fame ring. Kariya’s position is that targeted head shots should have no part in the game and that punishment should be harsher. The N.H.L. introduced a rule dealing with illegal checks to the head in 2010, but that has not eliminated them. “For my taste, it’s going a little bit slower than the way it should,” said Kariya, who starred for the Ducks from 1995 to 2003, scoring 300 of his 402 career goals with them. “But 10 years from now, I’m confident, we’re going to be in a better place than we are now.” He said he was bitter for a long time. “When you wake up in a hospital bed and you don’t know who you are, where you are, or what got you there, you’re not in a happy spot,” Kariya said. “There’s a lot of anger. With time, you learn to have a different perspective on it. When I look back at my career, that’s the last thing I think about.” A concussion from a crosscheck to the head caused Kariya to miss much of the 1997-98 season and the Winter Olympics. Another notable hit came in Game 6 of the 2003 Stanley Cup finals when he was blindsided by Devils defenseman Scott Stevens. Kariya remembers nothing from that hit and did not even remember coming back later that period and scoring a goal. His former Ducks teammate Teemu Selanne, who is also in the Hall of Fame class of 2017, cringes when he looks back at that mid-ice collision. “I have seen that hit now so many times,” Selanne said. “How late it was. It makes me sick.” Kariya, who also played for Colorado, Nashville and St. Louis, is able to surf a few times a week in California and snowboard in his native British Columbia. After officially retiring in 2011, he took up ballroom dancing on a doctor’s suggestion to keep his brain sharp. “The doctor said this is a great thing for you to do for your brain,” Kariya said. “As a male, to be able to lead and remember the steps, it’s very engaging with the mind.” There are, of course, other hockey greats whose careers were ended by concussions, including Pat LaFontaine, who entered the Hall of Fame in 2003. Dave Andreychuk, another inductee this year, played with LaFontaine. “I went through it with him,” Andreychuk said. “I know what it’s like. I went to his house while he was off. We just talked the other day about it.” Mark Recchi, another 2017 inductee, who is currently an assistant coach with the Pittsburgh Penguins, said he was confident that young players today were more aware of concussions and of how to handle them. He said he had talked about the dangers with his 16-year-old son, Cameron, a forward at Cushing Academy, a prep school near Boston. “He had a little one when he was 14,” Recchi said. “He got hit and had a little headache. So he didn’t play for a week. We went through the protocol with the team. That wouldn’t have happened in my day.”