 INDIANAPOLIS — In the most controversial decision in the four years of the College Football Playoff, the selection committee gave the final spot in this season’s four-team bracket to Alabama over Ohio State on Sunday. The first three seeds went to Clemson (12-1), Oklahoma (12-1) and Georgia (12-1), all of which were virtually assured berths on Saturday after they won their respective conference championship games. In the national semifinals, No. 1 Clemson will play No. 4 Alabama in the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans, and No. 2 Oklahoma will play No. 3 Georgia in the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, Calif. Both games will be held on New Year’s Day. The winners will play a week later in Atlanta for the fourth championship of the playoff era, and the 20th since top-tier college football’s postseason was unified under the Bowl Championship Series. In placing Alabama (11-1) over Ohio State (11-2) after this weekend, when the former did not play while the latter defeated No. 6 Wisconsin (12-1) in the Big Ten championship game here, the committee weighted its members’ senses of which was the better team over a strict comparison of their two résumés. Ohio State, which rose from eighth to fifth, had three wins over teams more highly ranked than the best team Alabama beat, along with a conference championship. But Alabama’s dominance of an admittedly weaker schedule won the day for the Crimson Tide. “The committee’s conclusion that Alabama is the fourth-best team in the nation was widespread and strong. It was unequivocal,” the selection committee’s chairman, Texas Tech Athletic Director Kirby Hocutt, said Sunday afternoon. Referring to the five former head coaches who sit on the committee — men who have spent lifetimes focusing on wins and losses and watching video of football games — he added: “It was informative, for instance, to hear the coaches’ point of view about how and why they believed Alabama is a better team than Ohio State.” Love or hate it, the decision was the kind the committee was created to make. The four-team playoff was a reaction to what was seen as an impersonal algorithm that determined the national title contenders under the B.C.S., offering as a superior alternative the more holistic assessments that experts could offer. Hocutt also acknowledged that as good as Ohio State’s wins over Wisconsin, No. 9 Penn State (10-2) and No. 16 Michigan State (9-3) were, “more damaging was the 31-point loss to unranked Iowa,” a reference to the 55-24 drubbing Ohio State took in Iowa City last month. With the Crimson Tide (11-1) joining Georgia in the field, the Southeastern Conference became the first league to put two teams in the playoff, and the first to have two teams play for the national title since the 2011 season, when Alabama faced Louisiana State in the national championship game. The Sugar Bowl will be a rubber match between Clemson and Alabama, which have played each other in the past two national title games, with each winning once. Whichever team emerges from their game could be the title favorite: potent offensively, Alabama (11.5 points per game) and Clemson (12.8) also have the best and second-best scoring defenses in college football. The Rose Bowl, by contrast, promises the unstoppable force of Oklahoma’s fourth-ranked scoring offense, which averaged nearly 45 points a game behind the likely Heisman Trophy winner Baker Mayfield, against the immovable object of Georgia’s fourth-ranked defense, which gave up 13.2 points a game. For the second time in four years, the Pacific-12 Conference does not have a team in the playoff, while this was the first year the Big Ten failed to place a team. Instead the Pac-12 champion No. 8 Southern California (11-2) will play the Big Ten champ Ohio State in the Cotton Bowl on Dec. 29, an old-fashioned Rose Bowl transplanted to Arlington, Tex. The playoff’s composition confirmed the top-heavy nature of the sport. The 16 total playoff slots awarded in its first four seasons have been filled by only nine programs. In contrast, the past four men’s basketball Final Fours have featured 13 programs. Alabama has made the playoff all four years of the format’s existence. Clemson, the defending champion, has made it three straight years. It is Oklahoma’s second appearance over all; the Sooners also played in four title games during the B.C.S. era, winning at the end of the 2000 season. Georgia, which has not been a genuine national title contender since the early 1980s, is the relatively new kid on the block Later Sunday afternoon, the committee released the rest of its final Top 25 along with the matchups in the other so-called New Year’s Six bowls — the games that every three years host the playoff semifinals, and in off years pit some of the best remaining teams against one another. In addition to the Cotton Bowl, the committee filled the Fiesta Bowl with Penn State and No. 11 Washington (10-2), and the Peach Bowl with No. 7 Auburn (10-3) and No. 12 Central Florida (12-0). The Orange Bowl announced it would feature Wisconsin and No. 10 Miami (10-2). Central Florida was guaranteed a spot in one of these bowls as the highest-ranked champion of the so-called Group of Five conferences. Despite being winless two seasons ago, the Knights entered the weekend 11-0 and then defeated No. 20 Memphis (10-2), 62-55, in two overtimes in the American Athletic Conference title game. While Central Florida’s coach, Scott Frost, announced Saturday that he would return to his alma mater as Nebraska’s next head coach, he also said he and his staff first would coach the Knights in the Peach Bowl.