 TAMPA, Fla. — Thairo Estrada, a top Yankees infield prospect, was shot in the hip during a robbery attempt last month in his native Venezuela, the Yankees announced on Friday. Estrada, 21, who had hoped to compete for the starting second base job, is expected to make a full recovery and could begin working out on a stationary bike next week. But he will be doing so with a small-caliber bullet lodged in the area around his right hip; doctors decided during surgery to leave the bullet in place. Manager Aaron Boone announced the injury nearly three weeks after the incident occurred, on Jan. 28. Afterward Estrada described ordering dinner at a restaurant with his wife in his hometown, Bejuma, when two teenagers demanded his phone and money at gunpoint. Estrada said he did not have his phone with him and was not carrying cash — a precaution he said many people take in the violence-stricken country. After the assailants checked Estrada’s pockets, they shot him, he said. He went to the hospital thinking he was not seriously hurt, but after doctors examined him, Estrada underwent surgery to remove parts of his clothing that were lodged inside him with the bullet. But there was no damage to nerves or bones, so the recovery time is not expected to be extensive, the team said. “Obviously, it’s a scary thing,” Boone said. “We’re just really thankful that he’s O.K., one, and I’ve been touching base with him every day. I think he’s in a good spot going forward.” Estrada, speaking through an interpreter, said his wife had been standing about 15 feet away and was unharmed. He thought, for a moment, that his career might be in jeopardy. “It’s unbelievable,” he said. “At the moment, when it happens you can’t believe that something like that is happening to you. At the moment, I was getting ready for spring training, and all of a sudden you realize you’ve been shot.” Estrada, a shortstop who was shifted to second base last summer, had a strong season at Class AAA Trenton, hitting .301 in 122 games. He then performed well in the Arizona Fall League, batting .342 in 20 games, earning praise from General Manager Brian Cashman, who listed Estrada in the mix with Gleyber Torres and Tyler Wade as candidates to play second base.