 WASHINGTON — A few hundred high school basketball fans packed the stands or stood on the indoor track that rings the court at the Sidwell Friends School gymnasium on a Friday night in February. It was nearly time for Sidwell’s playoff game against its archrival, Maret School. Sidwell is an elite private school in this city’s Upper Northwest area, known for educating the children of Washington’s power elite. Chelsea Clinton and Malia Obama are graduates. Sasha Obama and a granddaughter of former Vice President Joe Biden attend. It is not known for big-time basketball, though, and neither are any of the six other private schools that compete in the Mid-Atlantic Athletic Conference. (Barron Trump attends St. Andrew’s Episcopal School, another league member.) Yet the students from Maret (pronounced Mah-RAY) were loud and brash that night, and clearly taking the game seriously. “Overrated!” they shouted at Sidwell’s star, Saddiq Bey, as he shot free throws during warm-ups. As the 2018 college basketball season nears its end, Bey is an example of a type of player attending a new kind of high school basketball factory. While there are no steady figures available, these schools seem to be producing substantially more highly sought basketball players than they were even a decade ago. Josh Hart, a Sidwell graduate, won a national championship at Villanova and was a college player of the year finalist last year before being picked in the N.B.A. draft’s first round; he is currently on the Los Angeles Lakers. Luka Garza graduated from Maret last year and was one of Iowa’s best players this season as a freshman. Sidwell’s Jelani Williams is a freshman at Penn, which shared the Ivy League title this season. And in February’s Sidwell-Maret showdown, stars likely bound for brand-name college basketball programs led each team. “It’s been amazing,” said Bey, a senior, referring to the rousing crowd and school spirit. “I didn’t expect that to happen at a school like this.” The presence of blue-chip basketball players is all the more surprising because these schools emphasize academic prestige over sports. Mascots include the Frogs (Maret), the Quakers (Sidwell) and the Mighty Hoppers, a reference to grasshoppers (Georgetown Day School). Conference rules bar schools from giving out athletic scholarships. Coaches can’t make what is known as “first contact” with recruits; Sidwell’s coaches show up to middle school basketball events dressed in school gear and wait for families to approach them. “The MAC doesn’t get much credit where we are,” said Hart, the Sidwell graduate and Laker. “Some people call it the Wack.” Every member school is coeducational, but the MAC is a boys-only league. (Most of the girls’ teams compete in the Independent School League.) Top players’ presence at these schools illustrates a trend at top private schools everywhere, from Porter-Gaud in Charleston, S.C., to Harvard-Westlake in Los Angeles. Many are seeking to increase their diversity and, given annual tuition fees in the mid five figures and growing endowments, to respond to demands from parents and alumni that they excel in every facet of education. Meanwhile, players and their families are realizing that in an increasingly stratified economy, it pays to think more broadly about the kinds of ends to which basketball can be a means. “More people are seeing sports as an avenue,” Liz Hall, Maret’s athletic director, said. “To get your kid into an academically challenging school automatically helps them for the next step.” Bey, who has an easy smile and a modified mushroom haircut courtesy of his mother, is headed to North Carolina State on a basketball scholarship. The Maret junior E. J. Jarvis, a lanky young man who speaks softly but prolifically, has been offered a scholarship by Virginia Tech and several midmajors. Ivy League teams have also shown interest, and he is likely to attract more high-major suitors in the coming months. Many of Maret and Sidwell’s recent stars could have played for more prominent high school basketball teams. The Washington area is a hub of hardcourt talent, and there are several high schools, particularly in the Washington Catholic Athletic Conference, with national reputations. Midway through his high school career, Hart was courted by Montrose Christian, Kevin Durant’s alma mater. Bey transferred from DeMatha, one of the most famous basketball schools in the country. Jarvis considered a W.C.A.C. team before settling on Maret. Thanks to grass-roots basketball, ubiquitous college recruiting and social media, however, exposure is no longer an issue. The days when you had to play for the right team are gone. No matter where the best players go to high school, they play against and with one another all spring and summer on travel teams where college coaches can evaluate them. Bey and Jarvis both chose their unlikely schools knowing they would provide challenging academic preparation while not hindering their basketball careers. “This was a school that was not just an academic school,” Bey said of Sidwell. He said his coach, Eric Singletary, “switched the narrative, saying you could be a powerhouse in both.” He added, “I wanted the opportunity to excel in both.” Bey’s mother, Drewana, has been a high school principal and is currently an officer with the D.C. public schools system. “I’m an educator,” she said. “I’m big on him having a great education.” But if school was important in the Bey household, so was basketball, which Drewana Bey played on scholarship at the University of North Carolina, Charlotte. “When I had him, it was automatic,” she said. “You’re supposed to play sports.” For most of his childhood, Saddiq Bey was of average size, except for his stubbornly large feet. He went to public schools in Maryland and a Montessori school. When considering high school, he looked at Maret as well as St. Albans, one of Washington’s most prestigious private schools. He ended up at DeMatha. “A lot of varsity programs were pursuing me, like a lot of my peers and friends,” said Saddiq Bey, who played for D.C. Premier, a top travel program in the area. Sidwell, exclusive and expensive, was not even “on the radar” initially, Drewana Bey said. But during her son’s freshman year at DeMatha, when Williams, the current Penn freshman, was playing for Sidwell, Williams’s father, a family friend, suggested that the Beys take a look at Sidwell and that Singletary, the coach, take a look at Saddiq. “It was like a word-of-mouth kind of thing,” Singletary said. Bey hit it off with the admissions officer with whom he interviewed. Singletary wanted him. Bey swallowed the daily commute from Largo, Md., which can exceed two hours for a round trip, and the Beys, aided by a partial, need-based scholarship, swallowed the tuition. “I have a doctorate, but there’s no way I would have been able to afford to send Saddiq to Sidwell if we didn’t get financial aid,” Drewana Bey said. Last year, he had an incredible spring season with D.C. Premier, which is sponsored by the apparel giant Under Armour. The offers spilled in. Xavier. Florida. Connecticut. Miami. Drewana Bey recalled getting a text that read, “ND just offered Saddiq,” and thinking: What’s that? North Dakota? It was Notre Dame. Bey settled on North Carolina State, drawn by the coaching staff and the support system. “It was things like, would I go there if I didn’t play basketball?” he said. Jarvis’s Twitter biography contains a telling white lie. It lists his location as Shepherd Park, a Washington neighborhood along 16th Street, near his grandmother’s house. His grandmother, Charlene Drew Jarvis, is a prominent neuroscientist and former city councilwoman representing Shepherd Park’s ward. Her father, Charles R. Drew, was the pioneering African-American doctor who helped revolutionize blood transfusions. The Jarvises, like the Beys, live in the Maryland suburbs. But Jarvis and his younger brother, Jake, attend private schools in Washington. In short, E. J. Jarvis identifies as a Washingtonian. His favorite N.B.A. team is the Wizards. At Maret, he takes a class called Mapping Inequity in D.C. Six-foot-eight and possibly still growing, he models himself after the retired San Antonio Spurs star Tim Duncan. “Quiet,” Jarvis said. “Got his rings. His mind-set — he was so calm during the game.” Jarvis transferred to Maret after his freshman year from Landon, an all-boys private school in Bethesda, Md., a sports haven that has one of the country’s best boys’ lacrosse programs. He sought, he said, a more diverse student body and a smaller campus, trading Landon’s rolling suburban hills for Maret’s compact grounds in the shadow of the National Cathedral. His family sought superior academics. “When we made the decision to transfer to Maret, it was really predicated on the academic rigor,” his father, Ernie Jarvis, said, adding, “We have seen through the A.A.U. and high school circuit that you’re one Achilles away from having to pivot and make a career change.” These schools prepare basketball players for college in another way: academically. Garza, the Maret graduate at Iowa, said the transition to college had gone much more smoothly because of how difficult high school had been. E. J. Jarvis did not have to sacrifice much in the basketball arena. His coach, Chuck Driesell — the son of the beloved former University of Maryland coach Lefty — has experience as a Division I head coach, at The Citadel. And if Jarvis shines during what will hopefully be his first injury-free season of summer basketball, no college coach will miss it: He plays for Team Takeover, a Nike-sponsored team known as a factory of future stars. “That’s like the golden ticket,” he said. Basketball does not have the purchase at Maret that it might elsewhere. This does not bother Jarvis. “They definitely engage with the basketball team, but it’s not like the be-all, end-all,” he said of his fellow students. “You get a sort of social status, like a plus. But it’s not a big plus.” It seemed like a pretty big plus the night of the Sidwell game, though, particularly when Maret won, 59-56. The Maret students stormed the court, chanting, “This is our house!” At Sidwell, which won last year’s MAC tournament, buzz is already accruing to the junior point guard Jason Gibson. Singletary, Sidwell’s coach, is a Sidwell alumnus. He went on to play for Rice in the 1990s — a harbinger of the trend he would later help usher in. He is also African-American, like Jarvis, Bey and, according to a study from the University of Central Florida, the majority of Division I basketball players. He has seen, he said, how a more expansive outlook — including the notion that Sidwell can be good at basketball in an increasingly competitive league — has made Sidwell a better institution. “Back for me — ’90 to ’93 — the diversity was solid, but I think it has improved,” Singletary said. Singletary wears a Black Lives Matter wristband and urges his athletes, “Don’t be a guest.” Sidwell’s student population is poised to flip to majority minority next year, according to the athletic director, Keith Levinthal. “What I hope it does is expand our appeal,” Singletary said of Sidwell’s sports success. Over the years, he recalled some families thinking the school wasn’t for their boys. One woman who was considering sending her son there, he said, felt the culture at the school might make her son “docile,” take away some of his competitive edge. “Hopefully we’re dispelling some of that,” he said.