 EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — There was a sense of uncertainty as the two-time Super Bowl M.V.P. Eli Manning jogged off the field at MetLife Stadium, clinching a game ball in his left hand and waving to fans and friends in the stands with his right. Was Sunday’s 18-10 win over the Washington Redskins his last game as a Giant after 14 seasons? He will be 37 years old in January, and the Giants have concluded a disastrous 3-13 season. “It’s probably been my toughest year of football, I would say, with the losses, the injuries, the benching and coming back and everything going on, the losses more than anything,” Manning said. He threw one touchdown pass on a day in which the Giants rode a season-high 260 yards from their running attack. Manning is under contract for a couple of seasons, but the decision about whether he will return rests with the new general manager, Dave Gettleman, who was hired Thursday. Manning wants to be back. “This is where I want to play,” he said. “This is like my family, the New York Giants has been. Hopefully they feel the same way, and we can make that work out.” Manning’s touchdown strike was a 16-yard pass to Hunter Sharp, and Orleans Darkwa rushed for a career-high 154 yards, including a 75-yarder on the second play from scrimmage. The Giants ended a five-game losing streak and gave the interim head coach Steve Spagnuolo his first win since he took over for the fired Ben McAdoo on Dec. 4. Spagnuolo hugged Manning (10 of 28 for 132 yards) on the field after the clock expired, and he asked a team photographer to take a picture of them. “We’ve both been through a lot, and none more than him with this season, but he never changed,” said Spagnuolo, who has been promised an interview for the head coaching job. “I value that in people that can stay that balanced through ups and downs,” he said. “He’s had the highest of highs, and this was certainly very, very low, but he’s a tremendous competitor and I appreciate him greatly.” Aldrick Rosas kicked two short field goals and Kelvin Sheppard had two interceptions for the Giants, whose 13 losses this season are the most in franchise history. Because Indianapolis won against Houston, the Giants will have the No. 2 pick over all in the draft. Kirk Cousins, who also might have played his last game for his current team, scored on a 12-yard run for Washington (7-9), which has missed the playoffs in the past two seasons. He was 20 of 37 for 158 yards and three interceptions. “We have to have stability at that position, somehow, some way. Not everybody has it,” Redskins Coach Jay Gruden said. “That’s the way it is in pro football nowadays. If you’ve got one, you’d like to keep one. We’ll have to make that decision here pretty soon. Kirk will also. It’s not totally up to us. Kirk’s got to buy in also.” Cousins, who finished with his third consecutive 4,000-yard passing season, sidestepped questions about his future. “I need to catch my breath,” he said. “We’ll have plenty of time.” He added that he might have more to say on a radio show on Friday. Dustin Hopkins added a season-long 49-yard field goal for the Redskins. The win capped a horrid season for the Giants, who were expected to compete for a Super Bowl after making the playoffs last season. Injuries, penalties, blown fourth-quarter leads and the failure by Jerry Reese, who was fired as general manager, to fix the offensive line led to a disaster. It culminated with McAdoo’s decision to bench Manning for a Dec. 3 game against Oakland. The fan uproar was so great that Reese and McAdoo were fired the next day. Spagnuolo reinstalled Manning as the starter the following game, and the two were rewarded. The Giants scored touchdowns on their first two possessions. Darkwa scored on his 75-yard run, and Manning found Sharp for his first career touchdown two plays after linebacker Sheppard had intercepted Cousins’s first pass. Darkwa said the feeling of winning was amazing. “It feels great to end the year with a win,” said Darkwa, who will be a free agent. “Obviously, there are a lot of changes coming this way, but I could not be more happy for the players and the coaches. We battled our tails off this season. There was no quit in this team, and it showed today.” The Giants botched both touchdown conversions. The kick on the first one was blocked, and a 2-point attempt after Sharp’s catch failed, leaving the Giants ahead by 12-0. Washington linebacker Preston Smith got the Redskins back in the game, intercepting a screen pass and returning it to the Giants’ 20. Cousins scored on a 12-yard run two plays later. Rosas added a 23-yard field goal for the Giants later in the first quarter, and Hopkins hit a 49-yarder, his longest of the season, on the final play of the half, cutting the Giants’ lead to 15-10. Rosas had the only points of the second half, a 29-yard field goal early in the fourth quarter.