 The Rangers and Henrik Lundqvist came into Monday’s Winter Classic unbeaten in outdoor games — and despite below freezing temperatures and a gritty performance by the last-place Buffalo Sabres, the Rangers prevailed again. The temperature was 20.5 degrees at Citi Field for the opening face-off at 1:27 p.m. with Lundqvist bathed in sunlight in front of a sellout crowd of 41,821. J.T. Miller scored in overtime a little after 4 p.m. to give the Rangers a 3-2 win as the freeze deepened. “You don’t play that many times outside — so obviously every game means a lot to you, you want to make the most of it,” said Lundqvist, now a perfect 4-0-0 in outdoor games. “You want to make sure you can be able to sit down in a week or this summer or look back at this as a great memory. So you need to win. And we did.” Paul Carey and Michael Grabner scored first-period goals, and Lundqvist made 31 saves. Miller’s goal came on the power play 2 minutes 43 seconds into overtime — on the first-base side of the field. Lundqvist raced the length of the ice to mob his teammates as the frozen crowd bounced with exultation and likely relief knowing they would finally be out of the cold. “There were some real good plays on both sides, a lot of compete,” Rangers Coach Alain Vigneault said. “So typical N.H.L. Tight and right until the end.” Near where David Wright patrolled third base for the Mets, Carey opened the scoring with his fifth goal of the season at 4:09 into the first period. Although it was technically a home game for the Sabres, most of the crowd was in Rangers blue, and they rose and roared when the puck went past Buffalo goalie Robin Lehner. Grabner, who played for the Islanders against the Rangers in a game at Yankee Stadium four years ago, scored his team-leading 18th goal at 8:20 to give the Rangers a 2-0 lead. The Rangers even had the early upper hand on their bench, which was in full sunlight late in the first while the Sabres bench was already enveloped in chilly shade. Buffalo’s Sam Reinhart scored 56 seconds into the second period to narrow the deficit, and Rasmus Ristolainen tied the game at the 27-second mark of the third. The Rangers won their previous Winter Classic appearance — 3-2 over the Flyers in 2012 at Citizens Bank Ballpark in Philadelphia — and also defeated the Devils, 7-3, and the Islanders, 2-1, at Yankee Stadium in January 2014. With the victory, Lundqvist also tied Tony Esposito for eighth place on the career wins list with 423. But clearly, a fresh open-air victory had extra zest for the 35-year-old goalie who is playing his 13th season for the Rangers. “I could easily play one every year,” Lundqvist said. “To get this opportunity, in front of so many people and the excitement around the game, it doesn’t get old to me.”