 He’s playing. He’s not playing. He’s playing. He’s not playing. Well, now Ezekiel Elliott — whose suspension by the N.F.L. has run into a dizzying series of court rulings — is playing again. For now. A federal appeals court in New York on Friday morning temporarily blocked an earlier ruling and said Elliott, a running back for the Cowboys, could play, at least this Sunday against the Chiefs. The ruling does not resolve the case, but merely allows Elliott to play while it proceeds. Elliott was suspended by the league for six games before the season after the N.F.L. investigated domestic-assault allegations. He was the leading rusher in the N.F.L. as a rookie last season and ranks third this year. He is a crucial offensive weapon for the Cowboys, who are 4-3 and in the hunt for a wild-card berth. Here are all the twists and turns of the case: August: The N.F.L. suspends Elliott six games after his ex-girlfriend Tiffany Thompson accused him of assaulting her five times in Columbus, Ohio, where he played at Ohio State. (He was not arrested, after prosecutors decided her statements conflicted with those of some witnesses.) Sept. 5: A league-appointed arbitrator upholds the suspension. Sept. 8: A federal judge in Texas halts the suspension while he hears the case. Oct. 12: A federal appeals court throws out that ruling on a 2-1 vote, saying the court lacked jurisdiction. Oct. 30: A federal judge in New York rules that Elliott must begin his suspension. Friday: The appeals court allows Elliott to play another week. As the case has meandered its way through the legal system, Elliott has managed to play in every Cowboys game this season. “We’re excited to have him back,” Coach Jason Garrett said Friday. “This is bigger than a suspension,” Elliott told the Cowboys Website on Friday. “This is bigger than football. It’s them trying to make me something I’m not. I’m not an abuser. This is my name and this is my reputation. This is something I have to live with beyond football. Every day is worth fighting.”