 Jerry Jones, the Dallas Cowboys’ owner, was told by his fellow owners that his “antics” were damaging the N.F.L. and reflecting “conduct detrimental to the league’s best interests,” another sign that the feud between Jones and his colleagues is not abating. The comments, made in a letter sent to Jones’s lawyer, David Boies, and copied to the rest of the league’s owners, came a day after Jones said that he had no intention of backing down from his efforts to delay a contract extension for Commissioner Roger Goodell. By including an accusation that Jones’s actions amounted to “conduct detrimental to the league,” the owners signaled that they were not ruling out pushing for sanctions against Jones. Since Goodell suspended the Cowboys’ star running back, Ezekiel Elliott, in mid-August, Jones has tried to slow discussions about the commissioner’s new pay package, which the owners on the compensation committee have been working on since May. Jones has said in recent weeks that he has only been trying to increase the transparency of the contract negotiations and give more owners a voice in the process. Jones voted along with every other owner in May to approve an extension, but he has said that much has changed since then and that Goodell’s new contract should reflect these issues, which include the protests during the national anthem at N.F.L. games. But two weeks ago, Jones, a nonvoting member of the compensation committee, escalated the dispute when he threatened to sue the league and the six owners on the committee if they did not bend to his will. Since then the members of the committee, which includes the owners of the Chiefs, the Falcons, the Giants, the Patriots, the Steelers and the Texans, have communicated with Jones through lawyers, news releases and radio interviews, exposing one of the league’s messiest rifts in years. In the letter sent on Wednesday, the owners on the committee said that they were unhappy with Jones because he had circulated a three-month-old document with details of requests from Goodell that Jones “personally knows to be an outdated, historical artifact of no relevance whatsoever in the context of these lengthy negotiations.” If Jones was really concerned about the health of the league, they said, he would not “threaten to sue the league and its owners if he does not get his way.” In a radio interview on Tuesday, Jones said he would continue to try to slow down the approval of an extension of Goodell’s contract, which will expire at the end of the 2018 season. “We’ve got all the time in the world to evaluate what we’re doing,” Jones said. “We just need to slow this train down and have a lot of time to discuss the issues at hand in the N.F.L. and have a good clear input from all the owners, which we’re not having.”