 Two top U.S.A. Swimming officials, including one whose job was specifically to protect athletes, have resigned after a series of scathing reports alleging that the organization had ignored sexual abuse by coaches for years while athletes suffered. The officials, Susan Woessner — the organization’s Safe Sport senior director — and Pat Hogan, its club development managing director, announced their departures on Thursday in letters posted online. A statement and letter posted by U.S.A. Swimming described an apparent conflict of interest involving Ms. Woessner, who, until recently, had not disclosed that she had kissed a coach before later being asked to assist in an investigation into whether that coach had become romantically involved with a 21-year-old swimmer. The reason for Mr. Hogan’s resignation was not as clear, and U.S.A. Swimming did not say whether the two officials had been forced out or had resigned voluntarily. “I assure you that this organization is facing this extremely serious issue with one very clear goal — protecting children and athletes,” Tim Hinchey III, the president and chief executive of U.S.A. Swimming, said in a letter to members. “Every day we work hard to get better as an organization. We are never complacent. We want to listen and to hear from you.” U.S.A. Swimming, the national governing body for the sport in the United States, is now engulfed in a scandal similar to the one that has upended U.S.A. Gymnastics. That scandal led to a team doctor, Lawrence G. Nassar, pleading guilty to sexually abusing girls and set off a congressional investigation. In the weeks after Dr. Nassar’s dramatic sentencing, an Olympic swimmer, Ariana Kukors, accused her former coach of sexually abusing her when she was a teenager. The coach, Sean Hutchison, denied the allegations, saying that the pair had a “committed relationship” that began after she was of age. Then, this month, The Orange County Register published an article of almost 7,500 words alleging that U.S.A. Swimming executives were aware of sexually predatory coaches for years, but that they did not take action against them or try to change the organization’s permissive culture. Ms. Woessner was among the officials accused in the Register report of choosing not to pursue sexual abuse cases against coaches even after being presented with direct complaints. In her resignation letter, Ms. Woessner acknowledged that in 2007, during her first stint working with U.S.A. Swimming — as a database coordinator — she “engaged in kissing on a single occasion” with Mr. Hutchison, who was then a coach. She left the organization later that year to pursue a master’s degree in social work, and then returned to U.S.A. Swimming in 2010, when she was named the organization’s athlete protection officer. In that role, Ms. Woessner wrote, she was asked to assist in an investigation into whether Mr. Hutchison was romantically involved with “a 21-year-old athlete member.” (U.S.A. Swimming has said it became aware of a rumored relationship between Mr. Hutchison and Ms. Kukors in 2010, when Ms. Kukors was 21.) In her resignation letter, Ms. Woessner said she had never had sex with Mr. Hutchison and “never had a sexual or romantic relationship of any kind at any time” with him. (A lawyer for Mr. Hutchison did not immediately return a phone message seeking comment on Friday night.) Still, in a news release announcing Ms. Woessner’s resignation, U.S.A. Swimming said she had recently provided the organization with information about the “personal interaction.” Her behavior didn’t break any rules until she took the job as the athlete protection officer, the statement said. But the statement added that “considering Woessner’s Safe Sport role,” she should have disclosed her interaction with Mr. Hutchison before taking part in the investigation into his behavior. Ms. Woessner did not immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment on Friday night. Mr. Hogan, who served in his role at U.S.A. Swimming for 15 years, became romantically involved with Julie Ginden, one of his teenage swimmers in Atlanta, in the 1980s. They married when she was 20, and have since divorced. “I conducted myself with complete honor and integrity in my relationship with my former wife,” Mr. Hogan told The New York Times in 2010. “Our relationship, which developed after she was 18 and I was a young man in my 20s, always had the full knowledge and blessing of her parents.” The reason for Mr. Hogan’s resignation was not clear. Efforts to reach Mr. Hogan on Friday night were unsuccessful. In an email sent on Monday to Mr. Hinchey, B. Robert Allard, a lawyer for Ms. Kukors, demanded that the U.S.A. Swimming chief fire Ms. Woessner and Mr. Hogan by Feb. 28. “If you fail to meet this demand, we will assume that you stand by these two people and back up everything that they said and did in the past,” Mr. Allard wrote in the email. “I would like to give you the benefit of the doubt. Now is the time to show your true colors.” Asked for comment late Friday, Isabelle McLemore, a spokeswoman for U.S.A. Swimming, said, “At this time our statements stand as our comments on these matters.” In his letter to members, Mr. Hinchey noted the “recent media coverage,” and emphasized that the organization “does not tolerate sexual abuse or misconduct.” “We will not shy away from acknowledging or supporting survivors of abuse, and we will strive to ensure that there is never a lapse of a support system again,” the statement said. “While we disagree on several of the reported statements and many of the conclusions in recent media reports, members were failed, and we are doing everything we can to make sure it never happens again.”