 SAN JOSE, Calif. — After scuffling through his long program this season, Nathan Chen got an encouraging Olympic send-off over the weekend, landing five quadruple jumps on Saturday and winning the United States figure skating championships. He also received three perfect marks of 10 for performance and musical interpretation during his long program, confirmation that he is achieving the right balance between athleticism and artistry as he seeks to win a gold medal next month at the 2018 Winter Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea. Chen, 18, was a shoo-in for the United States Olympic team that was completed on Sunday. But, this being the subjective sport of figure skating, the selections behind him did not come without controversy. Ross Miner, 26, finished second to Chen at the national championships here but was left off the Olympic team in favor of Adam Rippon, 28, who finished fourth. Vincent Zhou, 17, the 2017 world junior champion, also made the Olympic team after finishing third here. Unlike track and field and swimming, where the top finishers at the American championships qualify for the Olympics, figure skating makes its choices based on an athlete’s body of work in national and international competitions. The selection formula is based on a three-tiered system of results, but the weight given to competitions within each tier is unspecified. Samuel Auxier, the president of U.S. Figure Skating, the national governing body, said the overarching aim of selecting an Olympic team was to give the United States the best chance of winning medals. On Saturday, Rippon seemed to be affected by nerves as his jumping skills faltered in his long program. He fell on a quad Lutz and managed only single rotations on a planned triple Salchow and triple Lutz. In the autumn, though, he took second place at two competitions on the international Grand Prix circuit — NHK Trophy in Osaka, Japan, and Skate America in Lake Placid, N.Y. — and he finished fifth at the Grand Prix final in December in Nagoya, Japan. Miner, who skated brilliantly on Saturday but has had a journeyman career, finished sixth at Skate America in his only major international competition of the season. He is ranked 26th in the current International Skating Union rankings, while Rippon is fifth. Rippon, usually a polished, artistic performer, will most likely be considered for the long program in the Games’ team competition, in which the Americans are expected to compete for a bronze behind the favorites Russia and Canada, before he competes in the singles event. The Olympic selection committee voted 11-1 in favor of Rippon over Miner, Auxier said. While Miner skated an “amazing, lights-out performance” on Saturday, Auxier said, the selection committee was not sure that he could perform at the Olympics “to the extent that there was a possibility for a medal.” Rippon said that he and Miner had exchanged gracious text messages, but there was much debate about the selection. Those favoring Miner noted that he was peaking at the right moment and that the current selection system devalues the national championships too much. Miner’s coach, Mark Mitchell, delivered especially pointed criticism, saying figure skating should choose its Olympic team as track and field does — by taking those who perform best at the championships. “It’s a competition, after all,” Mitchell said. He accused U.S. Figure Skating of using ill-defined criteria to pick a team based on its preference. “When they don’t like the results, they manipulate the system to get who they wanted to be there,” he said. Mitchell said it was “gutless” for the skating federation not to tell Miner and others in advance that they had almost no chance to qualify for the Olympics, no matter how well they performed at the national championships. “You let them spend all this money and time and energy to try and achieve their dream,” Mitchell said. “If you knew they couldn’t make it, why did we fly here? Why did we pay for a hotel? Why did we pay for training if it was decided already?” Chen is the lone American skater considered to have a real chance of winning a gold medal in singles, and is expected to skate the short program in the team event. A year ago, Chen became the first skater to land five jumps of four revolutions — known as quads — in a single routine. This season, though, he skated unevenly in his long program at three international competitions. To land five quads again here was reassuring. “The thing is, I know I’m capable of doing it, so I just had to make sure I did everything right when all the pressure came and all the people were there,” Chen said. None of the American women named to the team on Saturday — Bradie Tennell, 19; Mirai Nagasu, 24; and Karen Chen (no relation to Nathan), 18 — are considered medal favorites. The United States has not had a female skater finish among the top three since the 2006 Winter Games in Turin, Italy, when Sasha Cohen won a silver medal. The lone American pairs team to qualify for the Olympics was Alexa Scimeca-Knierim, 26, and Chris Knierim, 30, who are husband and wife. The United States has not won an Olympic pairs medal since 1988 and is not expected to reach the podium in South Korea. The top three American dance teams are expected to challenge for a bronze medal in Pyeongchang: Madison Hubbell, 26, and Zachary Donohue, 27, who train in Montreal; Maia Shibutani, 23, and her brother Alex, 26; and Madison Chock, 25, and Evan Bates, 28. The skating spotlight at the 2018 Games, though, is expected to be trained on Nathan Chen. He is seeking to become the first American men’s gold medalist since Evan Lysacek won at the 2010 Winter Games in Vancouver, British Columbia. While Chen nailed his quad jumps on Saturday, he continued to struggle with the triple Axel, which requires a forward takeoff and three and a half revolutions in the air. It could be a decisive jump at the Olympics. He completed only a single revolution in Saturday’s long program. But, as Chen himself noted, he still has a month to fine-tune the jump. “I think with that time,” he said, “it’ll be good.”