 PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — At an Olympics marked by a lackluster medal performance, the American team had been waiting for a flash of dominance, a sign that something actually was going as a lot of people back home wanted and expected it to. High hopes for a sweep of the podium rode into the freestyle skiing halfpipe, with David Wise, who won the gold medal when the event made its debut at the 2014 Sochi Games, and Aaron Blunck, the reigning world champion, among four Americans in the final field of 12. In the end, the Americans delivered, not a sweep, but a gold and silver dominating performance as New Zealand, in the form of 16-year-old, took third. Wise, 27, of Reno, Nev., defended his gold from the 2014 Sochi Games, while Alex Ferreira, 23, of Aspen, Colo., won silver and Nico Porteous, bronze. The breathtaking acrobatics and one-two finish drew a sustained roar from an American-heavy crowd at the Phoenix Snow Park. Those fans clearly hoped to see a sweep, with such a high caliber of American athletes in the field. But this is halfpipe, where it is common for the mighty to literally fall (as Blunck, 21, of Crested Butte, Colo., did in his second run, and Wise did in his first two runs only to recover with a jaw-dropping final go that bested the others.) Wise chalked that up to the nature of the sport, in which each run can demand more awe as skiers execute complicated spins and switchbacks in an effort to top one another’s tricks. He acknowledged that there was a lot of hype heading into the event, but the team sought to keep it out of their heads on their runs. “Sharing the top two steps of that podium with Alex is amazing,” he said. “The reality is the other guys had the opportunity. Aaron Blunck had the opportunity. Torin Yater-Wallace had the opportunity to take that spot away from Nico, and they didn’t do it. So I’m excited for skiing to look as good as it did today.” Their 1-2 finish certainly gave a jolt to the United States’ medal count, which through Thursday’s events stood at 21 medals over all and eight gold. With just a few days left of competition, the Americans seemed on pace to lag behind Sochi’s disappointing total of 28 medals, nine of them gold. Still, five of the United States’ eight golds have come in halfpipe or slopestyle events. In total, snowboard and freestyle skiing accounts for 10 of the United States’ 21 medals. “Halfpipe really caters to creativity,” Wise said. “It caters to doing things sort of differently than anybody else does. I think as Americans we have rebel in our blood.” Wise used three different pairs of skis because he had binding problems on the first two runs, leading to wipeouts. He scored 17 on the first and 6.4 on the second before performing a near-perfect run on the third for a 97.20. He landed double corks in all four directions: front left, front right, switch backward left and switch right, which basically means he spun ridiculously high and twirled in nerve-racking succession off the halfpipe banks as if he were on a frosty trampoline. Ferreira had a 96.4, and Porteous a 94.8 after trying a succession of moves he said he had never done before. “Because you’re at the Olympics, you just go for it,” Porteous said. He took note of the American skiers and the hype about them completely dominating the event. “It would have been cool to see the U.S.A. sweep, but I’m a really proud Kiwi right now,” he said. Yater-Wallace, who overcame a hard-luck string of injury and illness to make the team, finished ninth, with a score no higher than a 65.2. “It was a fight; it’s always a fight,” he said. Wise said he drew strength from watching other skiers’ runs. “It gave me a little bit of a boost,” he said. “I was able to to say, Hey, Alex has already crushed it. Torin has already crushed it. Aaron Blunck has already done an amazing run. Nico, coming out of the gate and landing something he has never done before. Freeski won.”