 CHICAGO — If major league teams held a fantasy draft for their playoff rosters, Clayton Kershaw might go first over all. Every team would covet the best pitcher in baseball in a short series, but only the Los Angeles Dodgers have him. They have started the last five postseasons by giving Kershaw the ball — and just to feel even more secure, they have always had Kenley Jansen, an electrifying closer, at the end. Yet in all that time, the Dodgers have never come as close to the World Series as they are now: one victory away, despite a 3-2 loss to the Chicago Cubs in Game 4 of the National League Championship Series at Wrigley Field on Wednesday. The Dodgers have finally built a sturdy bridge from Kershaw to Jansen, and seem poised to cross into new ground. “We want it more,” said Jansen, who pitched three lonely innings here to end last season as the Cubs eliminated the Dodgers in this same round. “The fact that we want it so bad, we’re desperate to try to win a championship, everything is just going right for us.” The Dodgers are not used to this in October. Going into this season, they had reached the playoffs 10 times since 1988, when Orel Hershiser and Kirk Gibson carried them to their last title, and 10 times they had fallen short of the pennant. This is the longest stretch in team history without a World Series appearance — and much of it has come with the Dodgers outspending all rivals. To obtain the missing pieces, though, money was not the difference. The Dodgers are carrying six pitchers to set up Jansen: Tony Cingrani, Josh Fields, Kenta Maeda, Brandon Morrow, Ross Stripling and Tony Watson. That bullpen six-pack has cost less than $8.5 million, counting the partial salaries of Cingrani and Watson, who joined the team in trades in July. “As an organization, we’ve done a great job of putting together not only a roster, but a pen that we feel can combat any lineup,” Manager Dave Roberts said. “So when you’re looking at a lineup like the Cubs or the Diamondbacks, who are very dangerous, we can match up and feel confident in those guys.” The Dodgers led the National League in bullpen earned run average (3.38) and opponents’ average (.222) in the regular season, and the results are even better now. In their division series sweep of Arizona and their three victories against Chicago, the Dodgers’ relievers had a 1.21 E.R.A., allowing just 10 hits, three earned runs and two walks while averaging more than a strikeout per inning. The ghosts of Octobers past — Pedro Baez, Joe Blanton, Scott Elbert, J. P. Howell, Chris Withrow — are gone from the organization or off this playoff roster. Only Stripling was also in the bullpen in last year’s N.L.C.S., when the starters included a tiring Maeda and Julio Urias, then 20, who missed most of this season after shoulder surgery. Kershaw and Rich Hill remain in the rotation, with Yu Darvish and Alex Wood behind them. Darvish won Game 3 on Tuesday with six and a third strong innings, and Wood, who made the All-Star team and was 16-3 this season, started Game 4 on Wednesday night. “I feel like the last two postseasons we were probably one starter short: Brett Anderson against the Mets, Urias against the Cubs — you could win those games, but odds are you won’t,” said Josh Byrnes, the Dodgers’ senior vice president for baseball operations. “So I think at least in each game, we match up. Yes, we’re still playing the best teams and anything can happen, but we’re not sort of like a step behind. I think that’s where our roster is just a little deeper than we’ve been the last two years.” The success of a bullpen, Byrnes conceded, can be much harder to forecast. Maeda — a league-average starter in the regular season — has fired three perfect innings in the playoffs. The left-handed Cingrani has faced three batters and gotten four outs (including a double play), and Watson, another lefty, retired his only two hitters on Tuesday. “Those guys have been unbelievable,” Kershaw said after Game 1 against the Cubs, when he left for a pinch-hitter after five innings and the bullpen pitched flawlessly behind him. “That’s a great sign for us. We know if we can keep it close for those guys, we’ve got a pretty good chance.” The biggest revelation, perhaps, has been Morrow, who blew away Anthony Rizzo with a 98-miles-per-hour fastball to end the eighth inning of Game 3. Morrow spent five seasons as a starter for Toronto, alternating among injured, ordinary and dazzling, and he once pitched a one-hit shutout with 17 strikeouts. By the end of his time with the Blue Jays, in 2014, the team had decided the bullpen would fit him best. But Morrow was not ready to convert. “I called him and said, ‘Look, we’re not gonna pick up your option, but we’d like to bring you back as a reliever,’ ” said Alex Anthopoulos, then the Blue Jays’ general manager and now the Dodgers’ vice president for baseball operations. “We mentioned Jason Isringhausen, guys like that, and said he had a chance, in short stints, to stay on the field, because he’s always had great stuff. He said, ‘I think I just want to start; I’m not ready to put starting aside,’ and I said, ‘Hey, you need to get it out of your system before you embrace it.’ ” After Morrow made five strong starts for San Diego in 2015, his shoulder finally gave out. He needed surgery and pitched well in relief last season, and Dodgers General Manager Farhan Zaidi recommended the team pursue him as a minor league free agent last winter. Morrow had a 2.06 E.R.A. this season and is thrilled to be a part of a stingy group. “Everybody’s just been attacking,” Morrow said. “That’s the No. 1 thing. You can’t give ’em free passes. I think everybody’s been keeping their emotions under control. I know that was a big focus for me coming in — it’s my first postseason — trying to keep your heart rate down, go pitch by pitch and not worry about the situation. Everybody’s done a good job of that.” The Dodgers’ pitching coach, Rick Honeycutt, made two All-Star teams as a starter but had his best seasons as a setup man in Oakland for the Hall of Famer Dennis Eckersley — himself a converted starter. Honeycutt understands why Maeda and Morrow are locking down the middle innings now: When a failed starter eliminates weaker pitches from his arsenal, the game can seem much easier. “I wish I would have went to the bullpen first instead of coming up as a starter, just because of the simplicity of the thought process — it’s batter to batter, pitch to pitch,” Honeycutt said. “If you think that way, instead of sometimes getting overwhelmed by a start, it kind of puts these guys more in the attack mode.” Through the first three games of the N.L.C.S., the Cubs’ relievers have not attacked the strike zone, issuing 10 walks in 11 innings against the Dodgers, including one to Darvish, by Carl Edwards Jr., with the bases loaded in Game 3. It was almost comedic — Edwards threw four balls in a row — and the Dodgers gladly accepted the gift. By avoiding their own bullpen follies this October, they are closing in on a pennant.