 In a crushing blow to the Houston Texans, Deshaun Watson, the team’s record-setting rookie quarterback, sustained a torn anterior cruciate ligament in practice on Thursday and is most likely out for the remainder of the season. Ian Rapoport of NFL Network was the first to report the injury, and it was subsequently confirmed through multiple news media reports. Follow our live coverage of N.F.L. Week 9 here. Watson, the 12th overall pick in this year’s draft out of Clemson, has been a breakout player for the Texans (3-4) and was a leading candidate for the Rookie of the Year Award. His 19 touchdown passes — 16 of which came over the last four games — are tied for the league lead, and he has been the catalyst for an offense that leads the N.F.L. with an average of 30.7 points a game. Watson’s 19 touchdowns are a record for a player in his first seven games, and he also has two rushing touchdowns. On Thursday, before the practice in which he was injured, Watson was named the A.F.C.’s Offensive Player of the Month. He is the first rookie quarterback to receive the award. The injury to Watson means the Texans will be without their best offensive player and their best defensive player: The defensive end J. J. Watt sustained a season-ending injury in Week 5. Coming out of training camp, Watson, who won a national championship during his final year at Clemson, was tabbed as the backup to Tom Savage, but his apprenticeship did not last long as Houston fell woefully behind the Jacksonville Jaguars in Week 1, and Watson replaced Savage for the second half. Watson was not able to rally them to victory, but he won his next start and has been off to the races since. Watson’s passing, running and attitude have made him popular around the league, and he made a huge statement last week by repeatedly throwing directly into coverage against the vaunted Seattle Seahawks defense. He threw three interceptions and lost the game, but along the way he became the first player in N.F.L. history to have 400 passing yards, 50 rushing yards and four passing touchdowns in a single game, and he did it on the road against a respected defense in a stadium known for frustrating rookie quarterbacks. “Go ahead and give him Rookie of the Year,” Russell Wilson, the Seattle quarterback who outdueled him in the game, told reporters after the thrilling finish to the game. “I love watching him.” Richard Sherman, the Seahawks’ All-Pro cornerback, intercepted two passes in the game but came away comparing Watson to Wilson. “We definitely know how other teams feel now,” Sherman said. The emergence of Watson had rebuilt the Texans into a far different team from the one that had relied mostly on its defense to win games over the past few seasons. Watson’s name is now added to a long list of high-profile players who are out for the season, which includes Aaron Rodgers, Odell Beckham Jr., Andrew Luck and Watt. With Watson out, the Texans will presumably hand the team back to Savage, who has a 1-2 record in three career starts. The team was expected to sign Matt McGloin, who was released by the Philadelphia Eagles before the season, to be a backup for Savage in Sunday’s game against Indianapolis. Once the news was reported, social media lit up with well wishes for Watson and condemnation for an injury-filled 2017.