 LOS ANGELES — Describing everything that happened in the Houston Astros’ 7-6 win over the Los Angeles Dodgers in Game 2 of the World Series on Wednesday night is a near-impossible task. There was once-injured Corey Seager’s go-ahead two-run home run off Justin Verlander in the sixth inning. There was the collapse of the Dodgers’ dominant bullpen with Kenley Jansen’s first career blown save in the postseason. There was the Astros’ Marwin Gonzalez’s game-tying home run in the top of the ninth, followed by go-ahead blasts by Jose Altuve and Carlos Correa in the 10th. Then the Astros’ closer, Ken Giles, had another blown save when he coughed up a home run to Yasiel Puig and a two-out, run-scoring single to Enrique Hernandez in the bottom of the 10th that tied the score at 5-5. There were eight home runs between both teams — a World Series record — including a postseason-record five in extra innings. Got all that? Given the mayhem of this topsy-turvy, home-run-filled game, it was only fitting that the defining final moment would be the go-ahead, two-run home run by Astros center fielder George Springer in the top of the 11th inning off the Dodgers’ Brandon McCarthy. “If you like October baseball — if you like any kind of baseball — that’s one of the most incredible games you’ll ever be a part of,” Astros Manager A. J. Hinch said. Because no lead was safe on Wednesday, many fans were undoubtedly holding their breath in the bottom of the 11th. It was merited: Charlie Culberson hit a solo home run off Astros reliever Chris Devenski, trimming Houston’s lead to one run. But Devenski struck out Puig to complete the victory after 4 hours 19 minutes, handing the Dodgers just their second loss of this postseason. “It was probably as nerve-racking as it was in the stands as for everybody else,” Springer said. “When the last out is made you finally breathe.” Two games may be a small sample size, yet one conclusion can be drawn in this series: These are two well-matched teams that have the potential to play more dramatic games like Game 2. Even the calmest of fans would have had trouble watching Wednesday’s game without fraying some nerves. “Two teams that competed for 27 outs,” Dodgers Manager Dave Roberts said. “An emotional roller coaster.” The teams will now fly to Houston with the best-of-seven series tied at one game apiece. They will return to action on Friday, with Houston’s Lance McCullers Jr., a hero of Game 7 of the A.L.C.S. against the Yankees, slated to start Game 3 opposite Yu Darvish of the Dodgers. The unseasonably warm weather in Los Angeles — it was 93 degrees at first pitch — should have been a clue that no margin would be comfortable. Balls that might have normally died at the warning track turned into game-changing hits. “Dodger Stadium is pretty famous for, at night, the ball not carrying,” said Verlander, who had pitched brilliantly this postseason. “Doesn’t seem like the case the last couple of nights.” Verlander, staked to a 1-0 lead thanks to Alex Bregman’s single in the third inning, was mowing through the Dodgers lineup with ease early on. But with two out in the fifth inning, Verlander gave up his first hit to Dodgers left fielder Joc Pederson, who tied the score at 1-1 with his first major league home run since July 26. Seager provided what felt a decisive blow an inning later. Seager, last year’s National League Rookie of the Year, hurt his back in the Dodgers’ division series against the Arizona Diamondbacks and missed the entire N.L.C.S. With two outs in the sixth, Dodgers center fielder Chris Taylor drew a walk, and then Seager smashed a go-ahead, two-run home run and screamed in delight. Then the Astros proceeded to slowly chip away. Facing the Dodgers’ stout reliever Brandon Morrow in the eighth inning, Bregman smacked a ball down the right-field line that hit the edge of Puig’s glove as he dived for the ball. Puig, a strong defender, flung his glove into the ground in annoyance after the play. Nursing a two-run lead, Roberts called for Jansen, his closer, for the kind of two-inning save Jansen has handled well. This time was different. The second hitter Jansen faced, Correa, smacked an outside cutter up the middle for a run-scoring single that trimmed the Astros’ deficit to 3-2, snapping a streak of 28 consecutive scoreless innings by the Dodgers bullpen. “I’ll take Kenley any day of the week with a one-run lead going into the ninth inning,” Roberts said. The next inning spelled more trouble for the Dodgers. Gonzalez was a key cog in the Astros’ season, yet he had not driven in a run since the first game of the division series. But he drilled a 94 m.p.h. cutter, Jansen’s trademark pitch, over the center-field wall for a game-tying blast. It was the first earned run Jansen, the best closer in baseball, had allowed in the postseason since Game 3 of a division series in 2016. “It was just flat,” Jansen said. “Give credit to Marwin Gonzalez. He didn’t miss the one pitch that was flat the whole night.” In the top of the 10th, Altuve and Correa provided a 5-3 lead by feasting off Dodgers reliever Josh Fields, who had been used sparingly this postseason. Altuve brought chants of “M.V.P.” when he blasted a solo home run to left-center field to lead off the 10th inning. Correa followed with his own shot, flipping his bat far into the air before he began his home run trot. The Astros’ dugout bounced up and down as the home crowd sat stunned. “I loved it,” said Puig, who is well known for his own home run celebrations. “He threw it higher than I normally do, and that’s the way you should play in the World Series.” Puig replaced the Astros’ euphoria with anxiety when he hit a solo home run off Giles in the bottom of the 10th. Normally emphatic on the field, Puig simply placed his bat on the ground before running the bases. With blood pressure high everywhere, Logan Forsythe drew a two-out walk and advanced to second base on a wild pitch. Hernandez then tied the game with a single, Forsythe beating Josh Reddick’s throw to home plate. As if that were not enough drama, Hinch brought in Devenski. And before he threw a pitch, Devenski fired a pickoff attempt to second base, hoping to nab Hernandez. It was wide, and if it had not hit the umpire Laz Diaz, there might have been another play at the plate. Instead, it was a dead ball. “Laz was perfectly positioned right where we wanted him,” Hinch said with a smirk after the game. This all set the stage for a delirious 11th inning. McCarthy had not pitched since Oct. 1, and was making his postseason debut. He coughed up a single to Astros outfielder Cameron Maybin. Up came Springer, who struck out four times in Game 1 but was determined to slow his heart rate down in this moment. He did, slamming a ball to right-center field for a two-run lead, and the Astros held on to win a game for the ages.