 Helio Castroneves was not quite ready to shelve his illustrious career as an IndyCar driver when the racing mogul Roger Penske, his boss since 2000, came to him two years ago with a proposal: racing sleek, high-tech sports cars. Castroneves, a three-time winner of the Indianapolis 500 and one of the circuit’s biggest stars, had finished third in the race for the 2016 championship, and he wanted to make one last charge to his first series title last year. But the time for a career transition has come for Castroneves, 42, who finished fourth in the standings in 2017. He has joined Penske’s Acura team that will compete this year for the International Motor Sports Association’s WeatherTech SportsCar Championship. He plans to race in the Indianapolis 500 in May, but his full-time occupation is now as a sports-car racer. “It’s away from something I did so many times, but I accept the challenge,” Castroneves said over lunch last week in New York. “Everything has seemed to be rejuvenated. Sports cars are something Roger always wanted. It’s part of his core.” Castroneves will be a part of a three-driver team this weekend at the sport’s premier event: the Rolex 24 at Daytona, a 24-hour race at Daytona International Speedway. The two-time Formula One champion Fernando Alonso is among the drivers entered in the event. The field also includes other Indy 500 winners, including Juan Pablo Montoya, Scott Dixon and Ryan Hunter-Reay, and the 2016 IndyCar Series champion, Simon Pagenaud. “We’ve always had the cars, and we have them now more than ever,” said Scott Atherton, the I.M.S.A. president. “But what we’ve added now is the star power of drivers. And not just the kind of drivers where you have to be a hard-core, card-carrying race fan to be aware of. That hasn’t been part of our equation. But now it is. All of the core elements have always been there. Now we’ve added this other dimension that’s going to take us to a whole new level.” The Daytona race has always attracted fans worldwide because it has its own spot on the racing calendar. Alonso, 36, who drove in his first Indy 500 last year and plans to compete in only this sports-car race, has piqued more interest internationally. The four-driver team that won last year’s Rolex 24 at Daytona included none other than Jeff Gordon, the four-time Nascar champion who retired from full-time competition in 2015. Gordon, 45, joined A. J. Foyt, Mario Andretti and Jamie McMurray as drivers who have won both the Rolex 24 and the Daytona 500. Sports-car racing, especially in endurance events, is quite different from IndyCar or stock-car racing. These cars race in bad weather and at night. Fourteen manufacturers, not just a few, are entered in the top race. And several classes race at the same time. Fifty-five cars entered last year’s Rolex 24 on the 3.56-mile road course at Daytona. About half of the entries were driven, at least in part, by amateurs, who are often referred to as “gentleman drivers.” “You don’t see a basketball team where there’s a rule that you have to have an investment banker on each team playing — and not playing in a club-level game, but the Super Bowl,” said Ricky Taylor, the 2017 series Prototype champion, who will be Castroneves’s teammate this year. “When else is a gentleman driver going to be out on the track with Fernando Alonso? Or Helio? And he has never been on a track with them before.” Castroneves, who drove last year in the I.M.S.A. Petit Le Mans endurance event, smiled when he said of the amateurs: “They can help you, if there’s someone in front of you that you’re catching. Or they can hurt you. You have to be careful.” Drivers take turns behind the wheel, usually trading off every 80, 120 or 160 minutes, which is more complicated than it sounds. For example, Castroneves, who is 5-foot-8, will have to use a seat insert to compensate for having a taller teammate, Graham Rahal, another top IndyCar driver. “The only part I don’t like is sharing the car,” Castroneves said. “It’s tough. At least I can drive in his seat with the insert. Graham is 6-foot-2. I’m like, ‘Damn, why are you so big?’ ” Castroneves smiled playfully. His move to sports-car racing has enhanced the sport because Castroneves gained nonracing fans by winning “Dancing With the Stars” in 2007. “Such an infectious personality,” Atherton said. “That’s him. What you see is what you get, 24/7.” The SportsCar season consists of only 12 events, which Castroneves likes because he can pursue other races, like the Indy 500 and the preceding race on the road course at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. Included on the sports-car schedule are a 12-hour race at Sebring Raceway in Florida and the Petit Le Mans in Atlanta. Castroneves is still determined to join Foyt, Al Unser Sr. and Rick Mears as the only drivers to win four Indy 500s. Penske is moving on in the IndyCar Series with the full-time drivers Josef Newgarden, Will Power and Pagenaud. Castroneves would have had to sign with another team to stay on the circuit. “I could drive an IndyCar for a few more years,” he said, “but I’ve been with Team Penske for 18 seasons. Do I want to break the relationship just so I can drive IndyCars for a couple more years? I did have some offers from other teams, and I was flattered for them to come to me.” But a new opportunity beckoned in the form of a new, handsome and sleek Acura ARX-05 DPI. Castroneves is looking forward to it. “A lot of people say, ‘Oh, it’s a little more relaxed,’ ” Castroneves said of endurance racing. “I haven’t seen anything relaxed!”