 If it were possible to make a building blush with pride, C. C. Sabathia might have done just that a few minutes after the Yankees pulled off a rousing 6-4 victory over the Houston Astros on Tuesday night to even the American League Championship Series at two games apiece. Asked to describe the feeling inside Yankee Stadium as the team rallied, Sabathia paid the eight-year-old building a pretty nice compliment. “It felt like the old stadium tonight,” he said. By that, Sabathia did not mean rickety and ancient. He meant loud and rocking, inspiring to the home team and intimidating to the visitors. “This is as loud as I’ve ever heard it,” said Sabathia, who heard the old Stadium only as a visiting player but has been a fixture in its replacement since it opened in 2009. Although the new stadium was christened with a World Series title in its first season, it seemed, in the years that followed, to lack some of the atmosphere that was present at the old place. Part of that, no doubt, had to do with players like Andy Pettitte, Mariano Rivera and Derek Jeter calling it a career and the fact that the Yankees, while still playing above .500 and contending, at least some of the time, were no longer dominant or winning championships. There were also the higher ticket prices, which discouraged some fans from showing up, and the fact that a new stadium was not going to instantly have the character of one that had been around since the 1920s. The new Yankee Stadium has, at times, been described as moribund and sterile, as a shopping mall and food court disguised as a ballpark. But not anymore, perhaps. This October, in the Yankees’ first sustained postseason run since 2012, the crowds have been loud and intense. True, when the Astros’ Yuli Gurriel cleared the bases on Tuesday with a double off David Robertson, giving Houston a 3-0 lead in the sixth inning of Game 4, the ballpark became hushed. Even worse, from a section of seats down the third-base line, there arose a “Let’s go, Astros!” chant that might have caused an outcry at the old Yankee Stadium. In this instance, the crowd of nearly 50,000 barely bothered to respond. Times change. Still, when Aaron Judge crushed a pitch from Astros starter Lance McCullers Jr. to open the bottom of the seventh inning and cut the Astros’ lead to 4-1, the beast began to stir. “Deafening,” said Judge, who is experiencing his first Bronx postseason. “Just deafening.” When Didi Gregorius followed with a triple off reliever Chris Devenski and scored on Gary Sanchez’s sacrifice fly, the crowd was in a full-throated roar, and by the time Sanchez put the Yankees ahead with a two-run double one inning later, the Yankees’ players found it nearly impossible to communicate with one another. “You try to talk to the person next to you, but you can’t hear a thing,” Judge said. “It was crazy.” It may have also been intimidating. In a game-turning eighth inning, Astros second baseman Jose Altuve, one of the best players in baseball, made a mistake by directing shortstop Carlos Correa to throw behind Chase Headley, who had stumbled rounding first base and seemed about to be caught in a rundown. Correa did what Altuve signaled him to do, and Headley scampered safely into second base, avoiding what might have been a rally-kllling out. The crowd roared again. The atmosphere on Tuesday stood in contrast to what the Stadium looked and sounded like in 2012, the last time the Yankees made it as far as the A.L.C.S. That year, there seemed to be a complacency in the ballpark, with some fans leaving before the final out of the Yankees’ 3-1 victory over the Baltimore Orioles in the decisive fifth game of their division series. But no one was leaving Tuesday night, even though the Yankees were trailing into the late innings. “We still felt confident, and the crowd played a huge part in it,” said Todd Frazier, whose leadoff single began the Yankees’ four-run eighth. “Tonight was about as loud as it gets,” outfielder Brett Gardner, a Yankee since 2008, said. And no doubt, it was as loud for Game 5 on Wednesday, when Houston’s Dallas Keuchel, a full-fledged Yankees nemesis, started for the Astros. Keuchel said he got a kick out of being booed during the pregame introductions before Game 3 on Monday. But something more profound was awaiting him in Game 5. The old noise seems to be back.