 Bela and Martha Karolyi, the former coordinators and coaches of the United States women’s gymnastics team, said that they had not been aware of the widespread sexual abuse of gymnasts by Lawrence G. Nassar, the former team doctor. In their first interview since the allegations surfaced about Dr. Nassar, who is expected to spend the rest of his life in prison, Ms. Karolyi said that even parents who had been in the same room with their children did not notice the abuse, which her husband said had affected the sport “like an explosion.” Excerpts from the interview were released on Friday ahead of its full broadcast on NBC’s “Dateline” on Sunday. It will also feature the program’s full interview with McKayla Maroney, the Olympic gold-medal-winning gymnast, who spoke about the “hundreds” of times she had been molested, according to excerpts. Ms. Maroney and hundreds of other gymnasts, both elite and aspiring, provided statements to courts in two counties in Michigan this year before Dr. Nassar was sentenced to 40 to 125 years in prison for criminal sexual conduct in one of those cases, and to 40 to 175 years for similar charges in another. He was also sentenced to 60 years for a conviction related to child pornography in a separate federal case. Parents of the athletes also spoke in the sentencing hearings, and some said that they were tortured by realizing too late that they had been in the room while the abuse was taking place, busy with cellphones or other distractions, or blocked from view by the way Dr. Nassar positioned himself at the therapy table. “That’s awful,” Ms. Karolyi said, speaking at the Karolyi Ranch, the 2,000-acre former national training facility in Sam Houston National Forest, north of Houston. “I would say even if they have big names or they have no names, any child who was violated by Nassar, it’s a crime and it’s so sad.” “I heard during the testimonies that some of the parents were in therapy room with their own child, and Larry Nassar was performing this,” she said. “And a parent couldn’t see. How I could see?” Mr. Karolyi said, “The whole thing is just like an explosion, like a bomb exploding, boom!” “Dateline” will also feature an interview with Aly Raisman, the Olympic gold medalist and team captain, who says she pushed for Dr. Nassar to be investigated and was pressured to keep quiet. In January, U.S.A. Gymnastics cut ties with the Karolyi Ranch amid a groundswell of criticism of the governing body’s handling of the Nassar case. At the same time, Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas said he had asked the Texas Rangers to investigate accusations of sexual assault at the ranch. Many athletes, including Olympians like Simone Biles, said they were dismayed that they would have to return to the ranch for national team training. The Karolyis began coaching together in Romania and became a power couple in the sport. Through the years, they trained great gymnasts, such as Romania’s Nadia Comaneci and, after they moved to the United States, Mary Lou Retton, the all-around gold medalist in 1984. In 2001, Ms. Karolyi took over as national team coordinator for the women, replacing Mr. Karolyi, who retired after the 2000 Olympics. She retired after the 2016 Rio Games.