 KONGENS LYNGBY, Denmark — Mads Byder sent the text message to everyone he could think of, anyone who had the money — and maybe the madness — to help. In the end, he copied and pasted the message 15 times, changing the name of the recipient, but nothing else. All the texts started the same way: “Hey, long time no see.” And they all cut quickly to the chase. “You have seen what is happening,” he wrote. “This is not an investment — it is fun. And sometimes, you have to invest with the heart.” Byder did not have time to be creative. He had, by that stage, roughly a day, maybe a little more, to prevent the century-old Danish soccer club he had supported all his life, Lyngby B.K., from slipping into oblivion. Its current owner had run out of money. Its staff members had been told their jobs were gone. The team’s insurance had run out. The players had not been paid. Several had already left. Many more would follow if new owners could not be found. Byder was sending messages because he was the last resort. He had been told as much the previous night when Birger Jorgensen, Lyngby’s longtime sporting director, had called him at home close to midnight. Over the next 36 hours, the two led a last-gasp attempt to help Lyngby avert the thing that fans across the world fear more than anything: not that their club will lose a final, or miss out on a tournament, or even suffer the indignity of relegation, but that it will cease to exist entirely. Every year, through careless management or reckless ambition, a handful of teams come uncomfortably close to collapse. Those who do fall — Rangers or Leeds United or Parma — serve as cautionary tales about the dangers of living beyond your means. But they are not heeded. Still, every year, more clubs flirt with disaster. In the first week of February, Lyngby came closer than most to the edge. Mathias Tauber, the club captain, said that, at one point, the club was “15 minutes” from going under. The story of those few days offers an insight not just into what it takes to rescue a club, but also into how players cope when they stand on the brink. The hotel, Mathias Hebo said, was perfect. At the end of January, Hebo and the rest of Lyngby’s players had flown to Faro, a resort town on the Algarve coast in Portugal, for a warm-weather training camp. “Very good pitches, 20 degrees Celsius, all the stuff,” he said. Hebo had joined the club the previous summer. He was 21, playing for Fredericia in Denmark’s second tier, and Lyngby seemed the ideal step up: a club close to his family in Copenhagen, with a proud reputation for developing players — Lyngby has produced a scree of Danish internationals, including four members of Denmark’s 1992 European championship team — and the promise, after a third-place finish in the league in 2017, of Europa League games this season. There had been interest in Hebo from Brondby, historically Denmark’s biggest club, and from teams in Sweden, too, but “Lyngby’s plan for me was the most impressive,” he said. “As soon as I got the call, I knew this is what I would do.” The luxurious trip to Faro seemed like another of the benefits Hebo would have to get used to; earlier in the season, Lyngby had flown by private jet to a Europa League match against Krasnodar in Russia. This was the life of a Superliga player. And then, five days into the winter training camp in Faro, Hebo and his teammates found out that life was about to end. “One day, Ekstra Bladet, a Danish newspaper, did a big story that Lyngby might close,” Hebo said. The team’s owner, Torben Jensen, could no longer fund the club, the newspaper reported, as his finance firm, Hellerup Finans, was on the verge of bankruptcy. “The staff had warned us,” Hebo said. “And then my phone just started ringing all the time.” The players approached their coach, Thomas Norgaard, seeking more information, and he passed on what Jensen had told him. “We were told everything was under control,” Tauber said. “He said we were not floating in money, but everything would be fine.” By the time the squad returned to Denmark, though, it was clear that was overly optimistic. Though Jensen had assured the coaching staff he was doing his best to find a solution, to cover his obligations, it had all been to no avail. As sporting director, Jorgensen had been trying his best to drum up an angel investor, but had drawn a blank, too. The edge was approaching. On Jan. 31, the players were told that their monthly salaries — due that day — would not been paid. “We were nervous then,” said Thomas Sorensen, one of the team’s veterans. “That is when you realize it is really serious.” For them, and for the club. The players learned from their union that, under Danish law, they could file a claim against Lyngby for their unpaid wages. If the club did not produce the money within three working days, they could consider their contracts broken, and negotiate to join other teams. On Friday, the players submitted the claim. By the following Tuesday, Feb. 6, the money had not arrived. Lyngby’s entire squad, about to return from winter break in the middle of a season that had begun in the Europa League, was free to leave. For a week, Jorgensen had been trying to stave off disaster. He had contacted everyone he could think of who might be able to step unto the breach. He had even been in touch with a handful of English clubs, including Aston Villa, in the hope that one might view Lyngby as a suitable farm team. None of it had borne fruit. Five players had already decided not to wait around to be rescued. Jorgensen was worried about a mass exodus. When he called Byder, on Wednesday, Feb. 7, Jorgensen said he “was throwing in the towel,” Byder remembered. The two knew each other only cursorily: Byder’s public relations company had once sponsored Lyngby, putting its name on the team’s blue jerseys, and he was still a regular at games. When he called, Jorgensen told Byder that a mutual friend had passed him his phone number. Not a problem, Byder said, but why? “I heard you have a big blue heart,” Jorgensen responded. He did, but his wallet was not big enough to save the club alone. All Byder could offer was an idea. Lyngby sits 20 minutes north of Copenhagen, in one of the richest areas of Denmark, known as the country’s equivalent to Silicon Valley. He suggested to Jorgensen that perhaps “many minor investors, local investors, could find a few million kroner each” and come together to keep Lyngby B.K. from folding. Jorgensen, despite several days without sleep, agreed it was worth a shot. The next day, Byder sent out his flurry of texts. Not all of those he contacted shared his enthusiasm. “People sent messages or called saying it was not for them, but they understood why I was doing it,” he said. “And a few said: ‘Don’t do it yourself.’” Byder, though, had a feeling that he wanted to give something back to the club that had given him good, and bad, memories. “I was ready to pay for that,” he said. “And I was ready to lose money for it, too.” Four or five of his entreaties worked, however. On Thursday night, together with a couple more names mustered by Jorgensen, 10 people met at a private house near Lyngby. “There was no time for presentations,” Byder said. He, Jorgensen and Tommy Petersen, a financier, gave short speeches. They were not uniformly positive. “Tommy said that we did not have time to look through the budget,” Byder said. “He did not know how big the black hole would be.” As captain, Tauber was busy that night, too. He had spent much of the previous year injured, nursing a torn knee ligament that — at 33 — threatened to end his career. He already had been considering what he would do if he was forced to retire. He could restart his law degree, on hiatus since he turned professional. He had even had an interview arranged with a digital marketing company. He did not feel ready to quit, he said, but he knew the club’s liquidation would make the choice for him. “I find it very hard to imagine that any club would want an injured 33-year-old,” he said. As Lyngby’s situation deteriorated during those frantic days, though, Tauber had found himself front and center, being a captain once more. The players had decided only he would speak to the news media. “We wanted to protect some of the younger players,” he said. “To make sure that what was coming out from us made sense in some way.” Every morning before training, the players would hold a short meeting. Tauber would relay what he, Sorensen and another senior player, Jeppe Brandrup, had learned, and then field a few questions. The union’s advice was consistent: Keep quiet, say nothing, file the claim, see what happens. That changed when the money did not arrive on Tuesday. Suddenly, Lyngby’s players were free to go. “From my perspective, I could not force players to stay,” Tauber said. “The club had a problem, but the players needed to be able to choose whether to wait, or to go elsewhere and not be worried.” Together with Sorensen and Brandrup, he told the team that there would be no hard feelings for anyone who decided to go immediately. The rest, he said, would wait until Friday at 3 p.m. If no money arrived then, if no new owner had been found, they would have no choice but to leave. The mood was anxious. In private, the players would ask each other their intentions, but it was hard, Hebo said, to be sure everyone was being honest. “Maybe one person told you one thing and said something different to others,” he said. Surreptitious phone calls prompted suspicion: Was he talking to his agent, arranging a move? Tauber did what he could to canvass opinion. “I talked to almost everybody,” he said, about contracts, but also about wives, and children, and mortgages. Looking back, now, he knows that not everyone told him the truth. In the end, five players decided they could not take the risk, and left. One, Casper Nielsen, a fullback who had already agreed to sign for Aarhus at the end of the season, simply brought his move forward. Even then, Tauber said, “he refused to be the first: He would not be the one who took everyone with him.” By Thursday night, though, Tauber feared it was over. He had heard there might be a chance of salvation, but time was running out. The artificial deadline — 3 p.m. the next day — was fast approaching. “I knew it was close, but I also knew they were missing a few million kroner,” he said of the new investors. And so he spent that night on the phone to his teammates one more time, to “hear their situations, hear their thoughts.” At 6 a.m. on Friday, Byder’s phone beeped. “Thanks for last night,” read the first email on the thread. Seven of the potential investors that had gathered the previous night had agreed to try to save the club. A local lawyer, Lars Borring, registered a company: The Friends of Lyngby had been born. That morning, the members started transferring money — some $50,000, some closer to $1 million — to replenish the club’s accounts. After training, the squad gathered in the canteen at Lyngby’s stadium. The last of the money had landed in the new company’s accounts with 15 minutes to spare. Petersen and Jorgensen told the players the money was in place. They would be paid. “Boom, like that, everyone stays,” Hebo said. In his car on the way home, Tauber cried with relief. Byder, though, had another problem. The bank account was empty again. There were, at the start, seven Friends of Lyngby. There are now more than 20: lawyers and chief executives and restaurateurs, as well as several players who started their careers at the club’s academy. Andreas Bjelland, a Danish international now with Brentford in England, was the first; three others have followed. They are, as Byder said, a “team behind the team,” their experience in a whole swath of industries, all of which he believes can help develop the club in some way. “We reflect different resources,” he said. Sponsors are returning, too, eager to be involved. The club’s accounts, quickly emptied to pay the players’ overdue wages and the team’s outstanding bills, have been filled again. The new owners remain open to further investment; the only requirement is that any further Friends should not have “terms and conditions” to their input. This is with the heart, as Byder told the first few to sign up; it is investing in fun. They are aware, though, that there is a limit to how far they can take the club. Byder has held more meetings with Aston Villa about a potential partnership, but other clubs are hovering, too: one or two from England, and Club Brugge from Belgium. Networks of clubs, economies of scale, are all the rage in global soccer these days. Manchester City, which already owns teams in New York, Melbourne and Montevideo, has been alerted to Lyngby’s willingness to talk. Byder does not rule anything out: He noted, with a smile, that David Beckham’s Miami franchise might be an interesting prospect. More immediately, though, there is another battle looming. Lyngby finds itself in a protracted relegation battle, thanks to Denmark’s complex system of playoffs. It has struggled on the field since that nightmarish week in February, not simply because of the players who left — though that hardly helped — but because of the psychological damage it did. When players talk about Lyngby, they almost always mention family. “We care about each other, we understand each other,” Tauber said. That had always been the club’s strength: its familiarity, its warmth. “You can’t ask a Danish guy to explain the word hygge,” Sorensen said. “It is hard to put it into words, but it is where you feel you belong.” During that perilous week, though, that bond was sorely tested. Players were forced to think not about the collective, but about themselves: their futures, their fears, their needs. Training sessions lacked intensity because players feared injury more than usual: A bad tackle at the wrong time might have meant months without pay, without a new club. “I was worried that spirit might break,” Tauber said. “It did not, but we are challenged right now.” It has taken time to restore that spirit. It may take more yet. Relegation would be the unhappiest of codas to what should be a heartwarming story, but perhaps even that has had its sting drawn by what Lyngby went through. Clubs go up and down, but they always remain, as long as there are people ready to rescue them, people with big blue hearts.