 It is an alluring job posting for a major league manager: a mega market, a marquee franchise and an immediate World Series contender looking for a deeply engaged clubhouse presence. The Yankees? Well, yes, but that job description also could have been lifted from the Los Angeles Dodgers’ search two years ago, when they unexpectedly plucked Dave Roberts from a broad pool of candidates. It has worked out well enough for the Dodgers, who had the best record in baseball this season and came within one victory of winning the World Series. Roberts, who won the National League Manager of the Year award last season, is a finalist again this year. While Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman promised a diverse group of candidates for his club, he was mum on many of the qualities he is looking for in a manager. But Cashman’s main reason for not wanting Joe Girardi back was that he preferred someone with a stronger connection to his young players. Cashman emphasized, however, that he did not necessarily mean a younger manager. It should be noted that last year’s World Series managers — the Cleveland Indians’ Terry Francona, 58, who regularly plays cribbage with his players, and the Chicago Cubs’ Joe Maddon, 63, who dresses up in costume along with his players — had no problem engaging players young enough to be their grandsons. Still, the next Yankees manager seems unlikely to resemble Francona and Maddon, with their extensive track records; a likelier model would be one of the 2017 World Series managers: Roberts and the Houston Astros’ A. J. Hinch. Hinch, 43, who has a psychology degree from Stanford, used humor and humility to build bonds with his players, quickly overcoming skepticism based on a failed, brief first attempt at managing the Arizona Diamondbacks, a job he landed at age 34. As well as Hinch has done in three years with the Astros, the Dodgers’ hiring of Roberts might be the most instructive in looking at the Yankees, who like their long-ago crosstown rivals are trying to build a perpetual contender around a strong farm system, an adherence to analytics and one of baseball’s biggest payrolls. Cashman said the Yankees, like the Dodgers, would be methodical in their search — they have not yet completed a list of candidates, even as five other openings have been filled. The Dodgers dismissed Don Mattingly as manager after they lost to the Mets in a 2015 division series, but it took a month and interviews with nine candidates to fill the job. The Dodgers interviewed internal candidates, former managers, novices, popular organizational figures (Kirk Gibson) and even a college coach (Darin Erstad) before selecting Roberts, then the San Diego Padres’ bench coach. He won the job over Bud Black, now the Colorado Rockies’ manager, and Gabe Kapler, who was recently named the Philadelphia Phillies’ manager. Andrew Friedman, the Dodgers’ president of baseball operations, said he was looking foremost for an excellent communicator. “Relentless optimism was something that was important going through the grind of a 162-game season, especially in a larger market,” Friedman said last week. “It can be a little bit of a grind, so having someone with infectious energy was something that we were looking for from the leader of our 25-man roster.” Like so much about baseball in recent years, the idea of a players’ manager has evolved, too, thanks to data. With statistical analysis and sports science playing a more prominent role in how lineups are constructed and the bench is deployed each day, the modern manager must be able to communicate these new strategies — particularly with younger players who may wonder why they are not playing. Relationships are the foundation for those dialogues. “Just so they can think along with you,” Friedman said. “And therefore, they are less caught off guard by certain moves you might make, which therefore reduces some tension that might come with in-game decisions or starting lineup decisions that in large part don’t manifest themselves the same way when there’s that open, honest communication throughout.” Communication is not strictly top down. Decisions that were once the domain of a manager are now collaborative, involving the front office, pro scouts, player development and sports science staff members, among others. “That’s why for a lot of us, getting asked questions like, ‘Who makes out the lineup?’ or ‘Who decides on the roster?’ are strange questions,” said Farhan Zaidi, the Dodgers’ general manager and Friedman’s lieutenant. “We view it as such a collaboration that it’s not about pointing the finger at one person who goes into an office and locks the door and makes the decision by himself. The process is a lot more organic than that, and I think that’s the way the game is headed.” When Roberts interviewed, he did not know Friedman or Zaidi — though he had worked for another Dodgers executive, Josh Byrnes, in San Diego — and he had not been a manager before. Friedman said those were formidable hurdles, but when they finished the initial interview, Zaidi remarked that it was as if Roberts had the answer key. In the few areas in which Roberts was not in lock step with Friedman and Zaidi, they took the ensuing back-and-forth as a healthy sign. “Obviously the relationship is way stronger today than it was a year ago, and I’ll bet it’s stronger a year from now than it is right now,” Friedman said. “That’s the nature of human relationships. As long as there’s trust in place, which I think we all have, we feel like, as we look ahead, the continuity that we envision is something that we feel will be a competitive advantage for us in the coming years.” And something that the Yankees would like to replicate.