 As he hounded Montreal Canadiens forward Brendan Gallagher in a game last month, Rangers defenseman Kevin Shattenkirk used a tactic that had been pretty effective in his first seven N.H.L. seasons: He took two quick whacks at Gallagher’s stick, one near his hands. “It was one of those things that I’d done a million times before, except this time the ref called it,” Shattenkirk said recently. “And I couldn’t really argue with it.” Shattenkirk received a slashing penalty and went to the penalty box, but he got a lesson on what would not be allowed after the N.H.L. decided to crack down on slashing this season. “The consensus was that slashing had become a form of checking,” Colin Campbell, the league’s senior executive vice president for hockey operations, explained in a recent email. “In addition, while it might be intended as a defensive tactic, it was causing injuries. “There was some thought that the slash had to strike the hand/glove for a penalty to be called. But too many attempts to slash at the stick were resulting in serious injuries. So we decided to embrace the standard that penalizes any slash on or about the hands.” Officials have not been shying away from calling slashing penalties during the first month of the N.H.L. season. According to the N.H.L., there were 347 slashing penalties in the first 185 games of the regular season — about four times as many as there were in the same period last year. In fact, those 347 slashing penalties are nearly as many as there were over the first 185 games of the previous four seasons combined. “It was crazy in the preseason,” Philadelphia Flyers forward Jakub Voracek said after a recent practice. “It seems like it has even slowed down a little.” Asked why that was, he added: “Players know they cannot do that, and they don’t know when they’re going to call it. So players are going to be more careful.” Campbell said a general manager had submitted the issue to the league in March for review. Three injuries of note resulted from slashes last season. Calgary Flames forward Johnny Gaudreau had a finger broken by an unpenalized slash against the Minnesota Wild last November. In March, Pittsburgh Penguins star Sidney Crosby partially severed the pinkie finger of Ottawa Senators defenseman Marc Methot. The Washington star Alex Ovechkin slashed Crosby in the playoffs in May, with a falling Crosby colliding with another Capitals player and sustaining a concussion. “You get slashed in the wrong part of your body, people worry about you,” Voracek said, smiling. Players wear padded gloves and, in some cases, wrist protectors, but a stick can still cause damage to hands and wrists. It is common to see reddened wrists and hands or taped fingers, especially late in the season. Reducing injuries is only one benefit of stricter enforcement. More penalties lead to more power plays, which, of course, can lead to more scoring. And with opponents being more careful with their sticks, players given more room to maneuver with the puck can create more scoring chances. “We are hoping this will reduce injuries as well as allow the players to be more effective offensively,” Campbell said. Team scoring is, indeed, up this season, to 3.06 goals per game through Thursday. Teams averaged 2.77 goals per game last season and 2.71 goals per game in the 2015-16 season, the lowest scoring average since 2003-04. The last time teams averaged more than three goals per game was in 2005-06, the first season after losing a year to a lockout. Notably, teams are averaging 0.70 power play goals a game so far this season, compared with 0.57 for all of 2016-17. “I don’t mind it, honestly, as long as it’s consistent,” Philadelphia center Sean Couturier said of the crackdown. “If you start slacking off as the year goes on and 40 games in we’re at the same place we were before, I’d wonder why we’re doing it. But I’m all for change. More power plays, more offense. But I guess some guys were a little too excessive with their sticks.” The league sent out a video to teams before the season depicting how officials would call slashing more tightly. As Shattenkirk understands it, a player can slash at the bottom third of an opponent’s stick, but a slash higher on the stick, closer to the hands, will be penalized. (A slash anywhere that breaks an opponent’s stick is usually penalized.) Shattenkirk said referees had been good at explaining what violators did. Devils center Adam Henrique, a six-year N.H.L. veteran, said: “It’s just so different. If you get into a guy’s midsection with your stick, or anywhere on his hands or high on his stick, they’re going to call it. Even if it is a light tap, it’s going to get called.” Slashing has been a part of hockey for as long as players have held sticks. Quick hands are almost as valuable as sheer speed. Young players are taught to use their sticks to prevent an offensive player from using his hands to make a play on the puck. “If a guy gets a step on you, you’re just going to try to stick-check him,” Henrique said. “You really need to focus on leaving your stick on the ice.” Now, Rangers forward J. T. Miller said: “You’ve got to check with your legs. You just have to force people to skate.” Miller, for one, thinks that the number of slashing penalties will decline as the season wears on — but for two different reasons. By late in the season, players will be more familiar with what is legal and what is illegal, and referees also tend to allow more physical play. “But they still have to enforce it,” Miller said, “and now, everyone knows it.”