 In the swirling postgame joy, Central Michigan Coach Sue Guevara knew she had to make an important phone call. Her Chippewas, seeded 11th in the N.C.A.A. women’s basketball tournament, had just defeated third-seeded Ohio State, 95-78, to advance to the round of 16 for the first time. As her players loudly celebrated, Guevara posed a question: Should she call Fee, her good friend, to share this happiness? The players all nodded yes. Fee is Felisha Legette-Jack, the women’s basketball coach at the University at Buffalo, and Guevara’s call proved emotional on both ends. Legette-Jack was engulfed in her own locker room celebration at that moment: Buffalo, also a No. 11 seed, had just defeated third-seeded Florida State, 86-65, in Tallahassee, Fla. Like Guevara’s Chippewas, Legette-Jack’s Bulls were headed to the regionals for the first time. Social media soon swooned at a video of the two coaches — two old friends who once earned, and then lost, Big Ten jobs — reveling in their midmajor milestones. “I just wanted to get on the phone and scream, ‘Yaaaa,’ with her,” Guevara said. “I wanted her to know how much I loved her, her team, and yeah, darn right, we all did something big.” Legette-Jack said: “I had a feeling a call was coming from Sue, so I was already smiling when I saw it. We had so much love to share in that moment.” In a March notable for its profusion of upsets in N.C.A.A. tournament brackets — a spring of Sister Jean, Maryland-Baltimore County and a stunning early exit by Tennessee’s women — the presence of two No. 11 seeds in the second weekend of the women’s tournament might be one of the more surprising developments. But the connections go far beyond their seedings. Buffalo and Central Michigan are the first members of the Mid-American Conference to advance to the regionals since 2007. Buffalo became the first MAC team in 22 years to earn an at-large N.C.A.A. bid, and the Bulls and the Chippewas are the only double-digit seeds left in the field. But they have cruised through the first two rounds, winning their four games by an average of 17.5 points, and now face their biggest tests yet. Buffalo will play South Carolina, the No. 2 seed and the defending national champion, on Saturday morning in Albany, a few hours before Central Michigan faces second-seeded Oregon in Spokane, Wash. Buffalo is a veteran team, led by 11 juniors and seniors, but also an international one, with four Australians, two Canadians and a Nigerian. The Bulls can pile up points. Led by guard Cierra Dillard, they scored 102 points in their first game and 86 in their upset of Florida State. They complement their scoring with composure-shattering defense. “I think the way this team has been constructed is a masterpiece,” said Stephanie Reid, a point guard. “We’re so knowledgeable of each other and this quirkiness that we have. It’s something that we love.” Central Michigan’s roster is quite different, with all but one of its 16 players hailing from Michigan. The Chippewas also can score — their average of 82.7 points ranked seventh in the nation this season — even though Guevara plays a short bench, with the five starters averaging nearly 32 minutes a game. Tinara Moore, a forward, and Presley Hudson, a guard, power the offense; each averages more than 18 points a game. Guevara and Legette-Jack acknowledged the obvious: Their teams are underdogs. Again. But they do not see their teams as any less capable of reaching the next round, or even the Final Four. “We are not flukes, no way,” Legette-Jack said. “This is the way the game is evolving: Good teams are everywhere. There is room for everybody at the top. You just have to keep working and trying to get there.” Both coaches know how long, and how difficult, the journey can be. Guevara, 63, is a link to the do-it-all early Title IX years of women’s college athletics. In her first job, she served as the softball coach, assistant basketball coach and cheerleading coach at what is now Saginaw Valley State University in Michigan in 1978. She climbed the coaching ladder as an assistant at Ohio State, Ball State and Michigan State before getting her first head coaching job, at Michigan, in 1996. It was there that Guevara met Legette-Jack, an assistant at Michigan State from 2000 to 2002. But Guevara, one of the most successful coaches in Michigan women’s basketball history, stepped down after a 3-13 Big Ten season in 2003. An assistant’s job at Auburn led to her second chance as a head coach at Central Michigan. She has rebuilt the Chippewas into a team that won the MAC regular-season title in 2017 and the conference tournament this year. “I admit it: My confidence was gone after what happened at Michigan,” Guevara said. “I doubted myself. I learned you don’t give up in life when the tough times come. You put your head down, keep going, because the better times will come. I am happier than a pig in mud right now.” Legette-Jack, 51, experienced a similar professional resurrection. A star player at Syracuse in the late 1980s, she landed her first head coaching job at Hofstra in 2002. That led to a move to Indiana in 2008, but four years later, she was fired after a 6-24 season. After that, she said, people in the women’s basketball community told her she was unhirable, even as an assistant. Months of anxiety ended when Anucha Browne Sanders, then Buffalo’s senior associate athletic director, called her to see if she would apply for its head coaching position. “The end at Indiana was awful because I knew in my heart the job I did was good — half my team had at least a 3.5 G.P.A., we had 3,000 fans at our games,” Legette-Jack said. “I just didn’t win enough. It crushed me. “Anucha called me to interview, but also warned me: I may not get the job. I told her and Buffalo: ‘Give me a try. You will be hard-pressed to say no to me.’” Legette-Jack got the job, and by 2016 the Bulls had won their first MAC tournament and made their first N.C.A.A. appearance. She has won 20 or more games in each of the past three seasons, something Buffalo had not done since the mid-1990s. She has learned to cherish the good times, seeing Buffalo’s team successes as signs of a faith rewarded, and to share them, whenever possible, with close friends like Guevara. “Indeed, to be one of 16 teams left in Division I still playing basketball is a dream come true,” Legette-Jack said. “As a player or an assistant, I never accomplished that. But I never lost my faith in God or hope. I want to share that to others through this.”