 Ray Wilkins, an elegant midfielder who captained England’s national soccer team and played for illustrious clubs like Manchester United, Chelsea and AC Milan in a 24-year career, died on Wednesday in London. He was 61. His death was confirmed in a family statement released by St. George’s Hospital, where he had been placed in a coma following cardiac arrest on Friday. Wilkins, who was nicknamed Butch, was a gifted two-footed, or ambidextrous, midfielder and an intelligent passer. He began his professional career as a substitute with Chelsea in 1973, when he was just 17. He became a team captain in 1975. “Our midfield general, his passing was superb whether long or short,” Chelsea said of him in a statement on its website. “He had energy, he could shoot, and he could score goals.” Wilkins moved to Manchester United in 1979, having played in 198 games and scored 34 goals for Chelsea. “He possessed wonderful passing skills and could spot an opening that many would have missed,” United said in a statement. Wilkins played in 194 games for United and scored 10 goals, winning the FA Cup with the club in 1983, before he moved to AC Milan in 1984. He played in Milan for three years before embarking on a short stint at Paris Saint-Germain. He also played for the Rangers, winning the Scottish league title with them in 1989, and the Queens Park Rangers in a club career that ended in 1997. At the international level, Wilkins played 84 times for England — as team captain for 10 games. One of his most famous moments came in 1986, when he was sent off the field in a World Cup match after throwing the ball at a referee during a group game against Morocco. He went on to coach QPR and Fulham, and was briefly in charge of Jordan’s national team. He was assistant coach at a number of clubs, most notably Chelsea from 2008-10. He was also a soccer commentator on television and radio in Britain. His survivors include his wife, Jackie; two children, Ross and Jade; and several grandchildren. Raymond Colin Wilkins was born in Hillingdon, West London, on Sept. 14, 1956. His father, George, was also a professional soccer player. After retiring from soccer in 1997, Wilkins struggled with alcoholism and was twice convicted of drunken driving. “I was lucky enough to play until I was 40, 41,” he said. “But when time decided I could no longer continue, I struggled in a way I’m sure a lot of sportsmen do.”