 PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — The Russian curler who failed drug tests at the Winter Olympics has made a last-minute decision to withdraw his appeal, a move that came after a meeting between an aide to Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, and the International Olympic Committee head, Thomas Bach. Alexander Krushelnytsky’s decision on Wednesday to waive a challenge comes as the I.O.C.’s executive board prepares to decide on whether to lift its suspension on the Russian Olympic Committee before the closing ceremony of the Games, which would allow Russian athletes to parade in their own colors, a privilege denied at the start of the Olympics. Deciding what to do about the Russian delegation — banned for a state-orchestrated doping program that corrupted the last Winter Games — has proved to be a bruising conundrum for the I.O.C., which has seen its own members fall out over the issue. Bach, the I.O.C. head, met with Igor Levitin, a former transportation minister who is now vice chairman of Russia’s Olympic committee, in Pyeongchang, South Korea, a few hours before Krushelnytsky announced that he had had a change of heart. On Thursday, the Court of Arbitration for Sport, or C.A.S., ruled that Krushelnytsky was guilty of doping and disqualified him from the Games, stripping the bronze medals he and his wife had won in the mixed curling event. “It would be stupid to deny it after two tests proved positive,” he had said before the ruling, in comments reported by the Russian news agency Tass. “The samples tested had been collected during the Olympic Games, and I am ready to face the verdict that is usually announced in such cases.” Krushelnytsky denies knowingly taking meldonium, a heart medicine that increases blood flow. Russia has opened a criminal investigation into the circumstances that led to the failed tests. Levitin declined to comment when asked about the meeting with Bach. The I.O.C. said in December, when it announced a series of penalties against Russia, that it would consider lifting the suspension for Sunday’s closing ceremony, should Russia act within the “spirit and letter” of its conditions, which included paying a $15 million fine and making a commitment to adhere to the global antidoping code. Russia has resisted paying the fine, with officials there saying it would only be made should there be guarantees of no further sanctions against Russia. The I.O.C. sought to play down the significance of the meeting between Levitin and Bach. Its chief spokesman, Mark Adams, describing the visit as nothing more than “a four-minute birthday meeting” for Levitin, 66, who remains close to Putin and has been discussed as a possible candidate to replace Vitaly Mutko as deputy prime minister. Mutko has been barred for life from the Olympics over his purported links to the doping program. “It was four minutes,” Adams said to reporters about the meeting between Levitin and Bach. “He wished him happy birthday. They may have talked about something else in that four minutes, but I really don’t know. Let’s wait and see.” The possible significance of the meeting was outlined in a Facebook post by a Russian sports agent, Andrei Mitkov, who has represented athletes including the Olympic swimmer Yulia Efimova, who was caught doping in the past but was controversially allowed to appear at the Rio Games in 2016. Mitkov conjectured that in the post that Bach and Levitin discussed the rehabilitation of the Russian Olympic Committee and “the passage of our athletes at the closing ceremony of the Olympic Games.” Exactly how Russia could be welcomed back remains murky, however. A three-person panel led by a delegate from Aruba will make recommendations to the I.O.C.’s executive board, which will make a decision that could even include a partial lifting of the sanctions against Russia. Nicole Hoevertsz, the I.O.C. executive board member leading that panel, said that the group is not “excluding any options.” “We have not reached a final decision yet, we are reaching that moment,” Hoevertsz told reporters in Pyeongchang on Thursday. “We are looking for the best interests of the I.O.C. and everyone involved.” The closing ceremony is different from the opening ceremony, where athletes from individual countries march behind a designated flag-bearer. On Sunday, the flag-bearers will march behind one another, before the remaining athletes enter the stadium in mixed groups. Some athletes who are frustrated by the I.O.C.’s handling of the Russia affair have privately discussed avoiding the closing ceremony should the suspension be lifted. Angela Ruggiero, the departing president of the I.O.C.’s Athletes Commission, on Thursday issued a reminder about Rule 50, a clause in the Olympic Charter prohibiting athletes from using the Games “as a platform for protests, demonstrations or the promotion of political, religious or racial propaganda.” Still, the I.O.C. allowed a joint Korean team to march at the Games in an effort to build peace between North and South Korea, two nations that are technically still at war.