 FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino, has called for an emergency meeting of the leading officials in international soccer to address a $25 billion rights offer from an investment group that could radically change some of the biggest competitions in the sport. In lengthy letter sent to members of the governing FIFA Council last week, Infantino called for a special meeting with leaders of soccer’s six regional bodies as soon as this week to discuss new details of the offer for control of a new quadrennial 24-team club tournament along the lines of the World Cup, FIFAs’s $5 billion cash cow, and a proposed league for national teams. The New York Times first reported details of Infantino’s secret talks with the group of international investors on April 9. Infantino disclosed the negotiations to FIFA’s board at a fractious meeting last month in Bogotá, Colombia. Officials have so far blocked Infantino from moving ahead with a deal that he said had to be signed within 60 days, in part because he declined to identify the members of the international consortium, citing a nondisclosure agreement, and also because they are concerned the event could compete with existing tournaments. It later emerged that one of the proposed investors is SoftBank, the Japan-based financial institution that runs the world’s biggest technology investment fund.  The full FIFA Council is expected to address the offer during an extraordinary meeting in early May. The next scheduled meeting for that group had been set for June, days before the 2018 World Cup kicks off in Russia. “A meeting with the confederations will take place in due course but no date has been set yet,” said a FIFA spokesman, confirming the planned talks were to discuss details of the offer from investors. “Further consultation is also ongoing with different stakeholders on potential changes to the FIFA Club World Cup.” Emergency meetings are rare and reserved for the most vital matters. The last time FIFA called its top board for an unscheduled meeting was in 2015, after several of the board’s members were arrested in a dawn raid on a luxury Zurich hotel. Infantino’s rationale for the urgent meeting is twofold. He wants to persuade skeptical officials to allow him to forge ahead with negotiations on the proposed $25 billion deal. But he also wants to calm some members who have grown angry over what they see as Infantino’s aggressive pursuit of a deal that would lead to the biggest restructuring in soccer in several decades. During his campaign for the presidency of FIFA, Infantino promised fourfold increases in financing for soccer development to member nations. The $25 billion would provide Infantino with enough money to follow through on that commitment ahead of his bid for re-election next year. Opposition from powerful European soccer officials and some of the continent’s biggest clubs remains strong. Creating the event without the agreement of the world’s best clubs, employers of the top players required to make the events a success, is likely to lead to a protracted conflict in a sport that has been a battleground for primacy between national teams, which are governed by FIFA, and club soccer, which is overseen by the six regional confederations and their members. To win support, Infantino recently met with a handful of executives from the biggest clubs, including Germany’s Bayern Munich and Chinese-owned Inter Milan, according to people familiar with the situation. The discussion took place without the knowledge of the European Club Association, an umbrella group for about 200 teams from across a continent, which includes the vast majority of the world’s richest clubs. A spokesman for the E.C.A. said it had not been informed about the extraordinary FIFA Council meeting. In a briefing document sent to FIFA Council members before the Bogotá meeting, and seen by The New York Times, FIFA said it favored a 24-team global club championship, with half the participants drawn from Europe. That group would include the finalists from the four prior editions of the Champions League, soccer’s richest club event. FIFA estimated each edition of its proposed club competition could generate a maximum of $1 billion; the investment group is offering $3 billion for each tournament, with the remainder offered for a proposed nations league. European soccer’s governing body UEFA is largely opposed to the proposal. Both competitions proposed by FIFA would cause upheaval to its events, including the creation of a significant competitor to the Champions League, which generates billions of dollars in advertising and broadcast revenue. The global nations league also would usurp UEFA’s own version of a similar competition, which begins its first edition later this year. Confederations in Asia and the Americas appear to be largely supportive of the idea, which would guarantee more games against top European sides for their best clubs. But a German member of the FIFA Council, Reinhard Grindel, a critic of Infantino’s management style, told Infantino the organization should focus on national team soccer and not meddle in club affairs. In its most recent letter to members, FIFA explained that the money from the proposed deal would directly benefit its 211 member federations, the group that will vote in next year’s presidential election.