 Linebacker James Harrison is no longer the odd man out or the oldest man in the locker room. Harrison, the longtime Steelers star, signed a one-year deal with the New England Patriots on Tuesday, three days after his unceremonious departure from Pittsburgh. Harrison, 39, posted a photo on Instagram showing himself with the 40-year-old Patriots quarterback Tom Brady in New England’s locker room, writing that he finally had “a teammate that’s older than me!” The A.F.C. North champion Steelers released Harrison, a five-time Pro Bowl linebacker who was the N.F.L. defensive player of the year in 2008, on Saturday to make room for right tackle Marcus Gilbert, who was returning from a suspension for violating the league’s performance-enhancing substance policy. “We make the decisions we feel give us the very best chance to win,” Steelers Coach Mike Tomlin said Tuesday when asked why the team didn’t release a different player to make room for Gilbert. “We needed the people we kept. We needed to activate Marcus Gilbert. Really, it’s nothing more than that.” To make room for Harrison on their roster, the Patriots released linebacker Trevor Reilly. Harrison, who is the Steelers’ career leader in sacks, piling up 80.5 during his 14 seasons and 82.5 during his career over all, briefly retired in September 2014 after a forgettable 2013 season with the Cincinnati Bengals. But he returned later that month when the Steelers ran into injury trouble. He collected at least five sacks every season from 2014 to 2016 and signed a two-year deal last spring that would have kept him in Pittsburgh through his 40th birthday. But Harrison’s playing time decreased significantly this season. He was active for only five games despite being injury-free, and recorded only one sack as the Steelers turned more and more to the outside linebackers Bud Dupree and the rookie T.J. Watt. The Patriots have been thin at defensive end and outside linebacker all season. New England, which won the A.F.C. East for a ninth consecutive season, can wrap up the A.F.C.’s top seed with a win over the Jets this weekend or a loss by the Steelers, who host winless Cleveland. The Patriots and the Steelers are both 12-3, and each has wrapped up a first-round bye. New England owns the tiebreaker by virtue of its 27-24 win at Pittsburgh on Dec. 17. Harrison would get a chance to face his former team if the Patriots and Steelers meet in the conference championship for a rematch of last year’s title game, which New England won, 36-17, on its way to its fifth Super Bowl title. Only Pittsburgh, with six titles, has more Super Bowl wins than New England.