 ATLANTA — Yoenis Cespedes, who had struck out in his previous four at-bats, hit a tiebreaking single with two outs in the 12th inning, lifting the Mets to a 5-3 victory over the Atlanta Braves on Friday night. Cespedes’s single to right field drove in Robert Gsellman, the winning pitcher, from second base. Cespedes scored on Asdrubal Cabrera’s double off Josh Ravin (0-1) to right field. Cabrera ran halfway to third before stopping and trying to return to second. A review showed that he was out at second, overturning the original call. Ravin hit Gsellman with a pitch to open the 12th. Gsellman moved to second on Amed Rosario’s sacrifice. Michael Conforto popped out before Cespedes delivered the go-ahead hit. Gsellman (2-0) pitched two scoreless innings. He struck out Preston Tucker to end the 11th with runners on first and second. Jeurys Familia pitched a perfect 12th for his eighth save. Mets starter Noah Syndergaard allowed three runs and seven hits, including a homer by Ozzie Albies, in six innings. Atlanta’s Sean Newcomb also lasted six innings and gave up three runs, two earned. Rosario’s double drove in Tomas Nido, who had singled, in the Mets’ two-run third. The Mets took a 3-1 lead in the fourth when Wilmer Flores’s single drove in Todd Frazier, who had walked and stolen second. Flores was thrown out at second. The Braves tied the game in the sixth when Nick Markakis doubled, moved to third on a wild pitch by Syndergaard and scored on Kurt Suzuki’s fly to left field. Flores was thrown out at the plate in the sixth while trying to score from first base on Jay Bruce’s high bloop double into shallow left field. Flores was waved around third base but was thrown out at the plate by Preston Tucker. A review confirmed that Suzuki had made the tag before Flores, sliding headfirst, touched the plate. The double ended Bruce’s 0-for-19 slump. A Braves fan was ejected in the sixth for reaching over the wall on the right-field line and interfering with an attempt by Markakis to catch a foul pop-up hit by Cabrera. After a delay of 1 minute 49 seconds, during which a review showed that the ball was in the field of play, Cabrera was called out. Albies became the first middle infielder in Braves franchise history to hit six home runs in April. He had entered the game leading the majors with 15 extra-base hits.