 WEST BROMWICH, England — Steve Griffiths first noticed something was wrong about four years ago. The clues were only little things — putting something down and not being able to remember where, forgetting longstanding appointments — but they were enough to make him worry. At first, he and his wife, Heather, wondered if it might be stress. Griffiths ran his own tire business, and that meant long days at work and hours at night worrying about the competition. They thought giving up work might improve his health, so Steve took early retirement. It made no difference. For a while, then, they wondered if perhaps he was experiencing the early stages of Parkinson’s disease. His hands shook a little when he talked; his movement was slightly stiff. Last July, though, he learned it was not Parkinson’s. Instead, Steve, 60 at the time, was told he had early-onset Alzheimer’s. There was a little relief in finally having a diagnosis, in “knowing what we were facing,” as Heather said, but mostly it was shock and fear. “It took awhile to come to terms with it,” she said. A few months on, Steve has “good days and bad days, times when I am a bit depressed, a bit down.” Losing his driver’s license, and the independence it bestowed, hit him hard. Mainly, though, it is the little things that hurt, dozens of them every day. Each one is another little blow delivered by his disease. Each one erodes his confidence a little more, eating away at his sense of self. Beneath the fog, though, Steve is who he has always been. The big things, including that composite of experience and memory and interests that defines a person, are still there. He has been a West Bromwich Albion fan since he was a child, and neither his condition nor the team’s recent struggles have changed that. He gave up his season ticket a few years ago; coping with the match day crowds at the Hawthorns was too much. But he still goes to the stadium, only now it is when the stands are quiet and the field is empty. Along with Heather, Steve has come every Wednesday for the last six weeks as part of a program, run for five years by West Brom’s foundation, called Albion Memories. Each group consists of a handful of West Brom fans, all of them suffering from some form of dementia, as well as some partners and caregivers. One or two wear West Brom scarves, gently draping them over their chairs, or knitted hats embroidered with the club’s crest. They come to meet and to talk — “to get out of the house,” as Heather put it. But mainly, they come to remember. “We want to energize their memories, to get them talking again,” said Paul Glover, the foundation’s head of disability. The best way to do that, he believes, is through soccer, through West Brom, tapping into the vast reservoir of memories built up through a lifetime of being a fan, its hold so strong that it remains untouched even as dementia starts to take a toll in other ways. “Their memory is often very good, even if they cannot recall what they had for dinner last night,” said Jan Liddell, a senior health care support worker at Edward Street mental health hospital. All of the members of the group are patients at Edward Street; all have expressed an interest in soccer, and all, as part of their treatment, have been offered the chance to join the Albion Memories program. “With memory, there is an element of use it or lose it,” Liddell said. They come here to use it. The format is simple. The participants sit in a semicircle in a stadium lounge, gazing through a picture window at the field — the view itself is an aide-mémoire, Liddell said — while John Homer, the head of West Brom’s supporters’ club and a walking encyclopedia of the Black Country, as this part of England is known, interviews a player. Some interview subjects are drawn from the current squad, though Glover says the former stars get the best reactions: not just because of West Brom’s current struggles, but because those are the names and the faces that the aging members of the group — Griffiths, now 61, is among the youngest — remember. A few weeks ago, the guests were Graham Lovett and Graham Williams, veterans of the West Brom team that won the 1968 F.A. Cup, and the club’s former striker Micky Fudge. All three, at Homer’s gentle insistence, cycled through their memories of their playing days, telling stories, cracking jokes, amiably mocking one another. When Lovett lost the thread on one anecdote, Williams suggested with a smile that perhaps he should be in the audience, not on the stage. Skillfully, Homer seizes on every little story to spark something in the group. He asks where the players used to drink, and asks those listening if they remember the pub, if they know where it is. He mentions cafes and ice cream parlors, some long since closed, and cars that have not been on the road for decades. At one point, he breaks into an impromptu chorus of “Wonderful Copenhagen,” from the 1952 musical film “Hans Christian Andersen.” A few of the guests take up the tune. They remember the lyrics perfectly. “The key is to go into their world, not drag them into yours,” Homer said. He brings along old newspaper clippings and weathered programs as prompts, each one passed around, and pored over, by the group. Some visitors join in more readily than others, but whenever Homer — or any of his guests — brings up a player, even a name long forgotten, the reaction is universal. As Lovett tells a story about playing against Johnny Haynes, a revered 1950s star for Fulham, there is a ripple of recognition, a murmur of approval. These sessions do not cure dementia. They cannot. Nonetheless, their effect can be profound. Some of that comes from the simple act of socializing, organizers said, since many of those living with dementia find themselves increasingly isolated. “The clinical impact of loneliness is massive,” said Tony Jameson Allen, co-founder of the Sporting Memories Foundation, an organization that uses similar reminiscence therapies to run more than 100 such programs in Britain. “People with dementia often see their social circles reduce significantly. Groups like these can be really powerful.” Increasingly, soccer is being used as their focal point. A number of teams — including Everton and Wolverhampton Wanderers, West Brom’s fierce local rival — run similar programs, and the National Football Museum in Manchester opens its doors for patients suffering with dementia, too. Liddell said that she has seen how effective it can be firsthand. “When they come here, they all talk and interact, and they see that they are not alone,” she said. “There is a definite benefit for their well-being.” Most of all, though, the pleasure and the purpose are in the acts of remembering, of being able to remember, of feeling like themselves again. “This disease strikes at the heart of identity,” said Jason Karlawish, a co-director of the Penn Memory Center at the University of Pennsylvania. “It can lead to a fractured sense of who you are. The logic of an activity like this is to kindle emotionally salient memories that tap back into that identity.” He noted that while there was no data proving such therapies had a curative effect, much the same could be said of medication. “These are substantive programs,” he said. Over the years, Glover has seen hundreds of people like Griffiths attend the sessions, but the experiences of one or two have stayed with him. “We had one woman who came to the group with her father,” he said. Under Homer’s guidance, the man started to talk about the games he had seen, the players he had watched, the highs and lows. He was no longer someone with dementia. He was what he always had been, what he still was: a West Brom fan. The visit was just as powerful for his daughter. “She said that when he was here, she did not see him as she knew him,” Glover said, but as something, someone else. “She said she saw him as his younger self.”