 The owner of the N.B.A.’s Sacramento Kings took the court after the team’s game against the Atlanta Hawks on Thursday night, saying he would try to “bring everybody together” after the fatal shooting of Stephon Clark, an unarmed black man, by the Sacramento police last weekend. Hundreds of protesters filled the city’s streets on Thursday night, blocking traffic on a major highway and shutting down the Golden 1 Center, where the Kings were set to play the Hawks. The police blocked the arena, preventing most fans from entering. The game was played after a delay. Video and photos posted on Twitter, including by Jason Jones, a reporter with The Sacramento Bee, showed many of the seats empty. The Kings won 105-90. On Friday evening, tensions were higher as demonstrators walked in the streets and confronted at least one driver, The Bee reported. A video also showed a pedestrian getting into a confrontation with activists, who threw water at her. No information was immediately available about possible arrests or injuries. On Thursday night after the game, Vivek Ranadivé, a software tycoon who led a group that bought the Kings in 2013, was accompanied by several players, coaches and executives as he stood with a microphone and called the shooting of Mr. Clark, 22, a “horrific, horrific tragedy.” He expressed condolences to Mr. Clark’s family. “I also wanted to say that we at the Kings recognize your people’s ability to protest peacefully and we respect that,” Mr. Ranadivé said. “We here at the Kings recognize that we have a big platform,” he said. “It is a privilege, but it is also a responsibility. It is a responsibility that we take very seriously. And we stand here before you — old, young, black, white, brown — and we are all united in our commitment.” Applause broke out from spectators in the stands. Some held up phones and cameras, recording his words as he delivered them. “We recognize that it is not just business as usual,” Mr. Ranadivé said. “And we are going to work really hard to bring everybody together to make the world a better place, starting with our own community. And we are going to work really hard to prevent this kind of a tragedy from happening again.” On Wednesday, the Sacramento Police Department released footage from body cameras and a sheriff’s helicopter that had recorded the chase and fatal shooting of Mr. Clark in the backyard of the house where he lived with his grandmother. The police were responding to a 911 call about a man breaking car windows and a glass door in the neighborhood. They encountered Mr. Clark in the dark yard and fatally shot him. The department said the officers — one white, the other black — -“believed the suspect was pointing a firearm at them,” and each fired 10 shots. But Mr. Clark did not have a weapon. An iPhone was later found near his body. Benjamin L. Crump, the Florida civil rights lawyer who represented the family of Trayvon Martin, an unarmed black teenager who was killed in 2012, is representing Mr. Clark’s family. “It is yet another troubling example of a young, unarmed black man being shot by police under highly questionable circumstances,” Mr. Crump said. “From what we have seen so far, Sacramento law enforcement’s actions — both before and after the shooting — have raised more questions than provided answers.” DeMarcus Cousins of the New Orleans Pelicans, who spent seven seasons in Sacramento, has reached out to Mr. Clark’s family and offered to pay for his funeral, a Pelicans spokesman and Mr. Cousins’s manager said on Friday. Mr. Cousins, who won the N.B.A.’s community service award last year, also offered to pay for funeral expenses in 2015 for a Sacramento high school football player. Another teenager was charged in that shooting death. Police killings of black people have led to high-profile activism in the sports world, most notably by Colin Kaepernick, who began refusing to stand for the national anthem in 2016, as quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers. He was soon joined by other football players, basketball players and other athletes, who started to kneel or raise a fist. The gestures have highlighted divisions between owners, players and fans over whether professional athletes should stage demonstrations on the field. Mr. Ranadivé’s speech was an unusual response by an owner of a major sports franchise in the immediate wake of a racially charged police killing. In remarks to USA Today, he said the Kings decided to close their arena doors as a way of maintaining the peace and respecting the protest. “It wasn’t even clear that the game was going to happen tonight, but we went ahead and played,” he said. “So I just said, ‘Yeah, absolutely, I will happily share some thoughts.’”