 The Olympic gold medalist McKayla Maroney said in a statement on Thursday that being sexually abused as a teenager by Lawrence G. Nassar, the former doctor for the national women’s gymnastics team, left “scars” on her psyche “that may never go away.” The statement from Ms. Maroney, 22, read for her by a prosecutor, was one of 105 impact statements from victims read aloud this week during the proceedings against Dr. Nassar in County Court in Ingham County, Mich. Ms. Maroney said the abuse began at a Texas training camp when she was 13 or 14, and that it continued for years. “I was told to trust him, that he would treat my injuries and make it possible for me to achieve my Olympic dreams,” she said. “Dr. Nassar told me that I was receiving ‘medically necessary treatment’ that he had been performing on patients for over 30 years.” "Dr. Nassar was not a doctor,” she said. “He in fact is, was, and forever shall be a child molester, and a monster of a human being. End of story. “It seemed whenever and wherever this man could find the chance, I was ‘treated,’” she said, recalling being summoned to Dr. Nassar’s hotel room one night when she was 15. “I thought I was going to die that night,” she said. Ms. Maroney, who first made her allegations against Dr. Nassar public in October, is one of more than 140 women and girls who have said he abused them. He pleaded guilty to molestation charges in November and will be sentenced later this month. He has already received a 60-year sentence for child pornography. Dr. Nassar has been accused of molesting gymnasts at the Karolyi Ranch, the national training center for the United States women’s gymnastics team north of Houston, as well as in his home and at other workplaces. U.S.A. Gymnastics said this week that it would not fine Ms. Maroney if she spoke up about the abuse, despite the nondisclosure agreement that she signed in 2016. Under that agreement, Ms. Maroney would have had to pay more than $100,000 if she chose to speak out, according to a lawsuit filed last month by Ms. Maroney against the United States Olympic Committee, U.S.A. Gymnastics and Michigan State University, which employed Dr. Nassar. Celebrities including the actress Kristen Bell and the model Chrissy Teigen offered to pay the fine in Ms. Maroney’s place. Dr. Nassar said in a letter to Judge Rosemarie Aquilina on Thursday that it was difficult for him to hear the victims’ statements. “Spending four or five days listening to them is significantly minor, considering the hours of pleasure you had at their expense and ruining their lives,” the judge replied. The testimony of Ms. Maroney and other athletes this week has taken center stage as young women and their family members have recounted their harrowing stories in detail, in proceedings that have been broadcast live. “He betrayed my trust, took advantage of my youth and sexually abused me hundreds of times,” Alexis Moore, a gymnast, said. “A child is just what I was — a 13-year old who didn’t see the world as a terrifying place,” said another gymnast, Jade Capua. “Not until I was faced with a life-changing experience that stole my innocence far too young. Not until the day that you, Mr. Nassar, violated the right to be called a doctor and took something from I and all the other strong women that stand behind me today.” “Little girls don’t stay little forever,” said Kyle Stephens, whose family was friends with Dr. Nassar and who said she was first abused by him when she was in kindergarten. “They grow into strong women that return to destroy your world.” Simone Biles, one of the most decorated gymnasts in history and a star of the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, on Monday became the latest athlete to add her name to the long list of Dr. Nassar’s accusers. Ms. Biles made a point of saying that she dreads training at the ranch. “It breaks my heart even more to think that as I work toward my dream of competing in Tokyo 2020, I will have to continually return to the same training facility where I was abused,” Ms. Biles wrote on Twitter and Instagram. U.S.A. Gymnastics said Thursday it would cut ties with the center. The gold medalists Aly Raisman and Gabby Douglas, who were members of the 2012 Olympic team with Ms. Maroney and the 2016 team with Ms. Biles, have said Dr. Nassar abused them as well. Ms. Maroney has also said that the United States Olympic Committee, Michigan State University and the U.S.A. Gymnastics organization failed to address complaints that Dr. Nasser had abused athletes for decades. “We were first made aware of the possibility that a U.S.A. Gymnastics physician had sexually abused U.S.A. Gymnastics athletes in the summer of 2015 when we were informed by U.S.A. Gymnastics,” Mark Jones, a U.S.O.C. spokesman, said in a statement. “At that time U.S.A. Gymnastics indicated that they were in the process of contacting the appropriate law enforcement agencies.” Michigan State University is committed to helping those affected by “these terrible crimes,” said Jason Cody, spokesman for the university, in a statement this week. “But as we have said previously, any suggestion that the university covered up Nassar’s horrific conduct is simply false. Nassar preyed on his victims, changing their lives in terrible ways.” Kerry Perry, the president of U.S.A. Gymnastics, said in a statement this week that the organization’s “highest priority” was the “safety, health and well-being of our athletes and creating a culture that empowers and supports them.”