 NEWARK — Taylor Hall had a goal and two assists as the Devils rallied for a 5-2 victory over the Tampa Bay Lightning on Monday in Game 3 of the Eastern Conference quarterfinals in Newark. Hall’s big night ensured the Devils will get a chance to even the series in Game 4 at home on Wednesday. Hall scored his second goal of the series and then made nifty passes to set up goals by Will Butcher and Stefan Noesen in the third period. Hall’s pass to Butcher during a five-on-three tied the game at just over 4 minutes into the third, and his feed to Noesen gave the Devils a one-goal lead with 7 minutes and 5 seconds remaining. Hall became the first Devil to have a three-point postseason game since Zach Parise in 2012 against the Rangers in the Eastern Conference finals. Blake Coleman added insurance with the Devils’ first empty-net goal with 57 seconds remaining during a Tampa Bay power play. Ben Lovejoy added a second empty-net tally with almost 38 seconds to play. Cory Schneider made 34 saves as the Devils opted to use him after he stopped 10 shots in relief of Keith Kinkaid in Game 2. Schneider also appeared to survive an injury scare with about 10 minutes left in the third when Tampa Bay defenseman Ryan McDonagh collided with him. Alex Killorn and Steven Stamkos each registered a power-play goal and an assist for Tampa Bay. Nikita Kucherov recorded the primary assists on both Lightning goals. Andrei Vasilevskiy made 36 saves for Tampa Bay. The Lightning took a 1-0 lead 42 seconds into the second period by getting their fourth power-play goal of the series. Killorn scored his fourth goal of the series by tipping Kucherov’s centering pass from the left corner over Schneider’s stick. The Devils tied the game with 7 minutes and 36 seconds remaining in the second when Hall lifted a slap shot from the high shot under Vasilevskiy’s legs. Stamkos gave the Lightning a 2-1 lead 38 seconds into the third with a shot from the right circle that sailed by Schneider’s left arm. Butcher tied the game after the Lightning were whistled for too many men on the ice. He exchanged passes with Hall, took the return feed and sent a shot from near the blue line over Vasilevskiy’s stick while Patrick Maroon provided a screen. The Devils took their first lead of the series when Hall skated through the neutral zone and flew by J. T. Miller before stopping in the left circle. He then whipped a pass to Noesen, who took a shot from the right circle past Vasilevskiy.