 So the Process worked, did it not? The Philadelphia 76ers improved to 8-6 on Wednesday night as Joel Embiid scored a career-high 46 points in beating the Los Angeles Lakers. The team looks likely to make the N.B.A. playoffs for the first time in six years. And plenty of fans are giving most of the credit not to the players or the current front office, but rather to a former general manager. After Sam Hinkie took over in 2013, the Sixers endured three consecutive horrendous seasons with fewer than 20 wins, and that’s just how he wanted it. Hinkie’s notion was that the best way for the team to become great was to lose badly for years, while stockpiling the resulting great draft picks. His plan was called the Process, and many Sixers fans bought in. To be clear, the players never intentionally tried to lose. But Hinkie kept the roster weak, ruthlessly trading away any players who might help the team get unwanted wins. The ethics of this troubled many in the N.B.A., and eventually Sixers management as well. Hinkie wore out his welcome and left the team. But the Sixers’ record of infamy, along with some lottery ball luck, did indeed land them top draft picks. The team had a top-three pick in each of the last four drafts. As many Process detractors frequently noted, a great draft pick is no guarantee of a great player. And two of those picks have not really helped the Sixers. Center Jahlil Okafor, No. 3 in 2015, never quite fit in, especially defensively. The team has decided not to pick up his option, and he is currently in limbo and likely to be traded. Their No. 1 overall pick from the most recent draft, shooting guard Markelle Fultz, is already raising concern that he may be a bust. He played just four games before being sidelined indefinitely with shoulder problems that seemed to limit him in those games. But the other two top picks are the cornerstones of the resurgent team. After two seasons limited by injury, Embiid, No. 3 in 2014, is healthy and has become one of the league’s most exciting players. A do-it-all big man, he rebounds, scores, passes and plays good defense, moving on court like a man much smaller than his 7-0 height. Ben Simmons was taken No. 1 over all in 2016, but missed all of last season with a broken foot. Now playing again, he, too, defies his height, as a rare 6-10 point guard. He leads the team in assists, and is also second to Embiid in rebounding and scoring. But before you credit tanking for draft picks as the secret to N.B.A. success, realize that the third best player on the team is Robert Covington, a 3-point-shooting forward who was undrafted and picked up from the N.B.A.’s developmental league (and is now on the verge of signing a huge contact). Also starting is J.J. Redick, a 33-year-old guard picked up as a free agent in the off-season. Embiid, whose social media game is on a par with his basketball skills, posted a photo on Instagram after Wednesday’s game that showed him sending the struggling Lakers rookie Lonzo Ball tumbling as he drove to the basket. “What a night #TheProcess,” read the caption. Though Hinkie is out of town, Embiid has embraced the Process as his own nickname, and the phrase is likely to be heard in Philadelphia for some time. As will the debate over how much credit, if any, should go to Hinkie’s unconventional methods. The Sixers’ resurgence could still be a false dawn. Injuries could derail them. Perhaps they will peak as a good team without ever breaking through to greatness, as the Hinkie model promised. Whoever gets the credit, the Sixers are playing enjoyable basketball again. After the years they have had to sit through, the Philly fans deserve that at least.