 MINNEAPOLIS — The sporting world will have to wait until Sunday night to find out whether the New England Patriots or the Philadelphia Eagles will win the Super Bowl. Jostens, the Minnesota company that has made rings for the winning and losing teams for decades, doesn’t have that luxury. Early last month the country’s largest ring manufacturer began developing designs for the 12 teams that had qualified for the playoffs, using their logos, home cities, even details from their playoff runs. Once the winner is crowned, Jostens can quickly call the team owner with its ideas, in hopes of getting the contract to make the most iconic ring in sports. “Each story will create some uniqueness,” said Chris Poitras, the chief operating officer of the pro sports, college and specialty division at Jostens, which is based here in the Super Bowl host city. “If the Pats win, it’ll be their sixth, and we’ve already done the first five. If it’s the Eagles, we know in January there is a chance they’ll want emeralds” to match the primary color of the team’s uniforms. Many companies vie to make Super Bowl rings, so Jostens has to deliver sales pitches to the Super Bowl teams each year — even though the company has made rings for 33 out of the 51 winners. The company has also made championship rings for many other pro teams, including the Chicago Cubs and Pittsburgh Penguins in 2016. But making them for the Super Bowl champion and the runner-up — which gets rings for winning its conference — is the most prestigious job. The N.F.L. is the largest and most popular sports league in the country, and the rings have become recognizable status symbols. They have also become increasingly ostentatious. Last year, the Patriots owner Robert K. Kraft helped design one with 283 diamonds to commemorate the 28-3 deficit that the Patriots overcame to beat the Atlanta Falcons in the Super Bowl. The ring also included five large diamonds to symbolize each of the team’s titles. The team logo is in red and blue stones. The words “unequivocally the sweetest” are etched on one side. “That’s my privilege to do it, and I love it,” Kraft said of his role in designing the rings with Jostens. “To me, having 283 diamonds, I knew our players would never forget.” While the Patriots embraced their new jewels, the Falcons owner Arthur Blank was not happy that Kraft had highlighted the score on the ring. On average, Super Bowl rings in recent years have had more than 250 diamonds, a far cry from the relatively austere ring given to the Green Bay Packers after they won the first Super Bowl in 1967. That version had a single diamond in the middle of a large gold band. Teams now demand rings so large that Jostens is trying to create a two-fingered ring. The players are getting larger, too. Most men typically wear rings between size 8 and size 14. The largest ring Jostens ever made was for William (The Refrigerator) Perry of the 1985 Chicago Bears, who got a size 25. (Jostens later expanded it to size 27.) The rings, which are given to players and coaches, can easily cost more than $10,000. The league pays for the first 150 rings. The teams pay for any additional ones. Owners often give more modest versions to team staff members, family and friends, and the wives and partners of players and coaches. Last year, Kraft gave Super Bowl rings to his friend President Trump and to the mother of quarterback Tom Brady, Galynn Brady, who had been fighting cancer. Jostens manufactures the rings at its factory in Denton, Tex., about 40 miles north of Dallas. More than 400 employees produce as many as 5,000 rings a day there, and roughly 600,000 a year. Most are high school class rings. Specialty items like Super Bowl rings are more complicated, requiring nearly three dozen separate manufacturing processes. When the designs arrive from the head office in Minnesota, the production team uses a 3-D printer to make the ring chassis and the four-pronged settings that will hold the stones. The introduction of computers into the design process has let Jostens more easily customize rings. “For the masses, we try to keep it simple,” said Ken Sprabeary, a project manager for Jostens in Denton. “For the professionals, the sky’s the limit.” The rings and settings begin with wax models that are used to create cast molds. The molds are then filled with white gold or one of roughly 30 alloys that Jostens uses. Casting is the least reliable part of the process, particularly when a design is very intricate. (Think of an eagle’s head with a small eye.) Six percent of casts are rejected, Sprabeary said. Once the rings cool, workers like Darian Redmond clear away the plaster from the mold, one of 20 different processes from polishing to setting. Redmond is a longtime Eagles fan who spent January hoping he would help make his team’s Super Bowl ring. Polishing removes any excess material. Sometimes, other parts of the ring are welded on, and black paint is sprayed on as a background to the stones. Then 70 setters add diamonds and other precious stones. Jostens has had to triple the number of setters in recent years. “Everyone wants bling,” Sprabeary said. “Brand X just doesn’t do it.”