 With billions for television rights and millions for salaries, the Indian Premier League of cricket is a big-time league in every respect. But now it is being disrupted in a most low-tech manner: by protesting, drought-stricken farmers. And maybe by snakes. For decades, two Indian states, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, have vigorously disputed water rights to the Cauvery River. Pressed by drought conditions, farmers in Tamil Nadu have recently increased their demands for more water. The farmers decided that to get publicity for their cause, the best target was the high-profile I.P.L., an 11-year-old league that has been a smashing success, drawing top players and viewers from all over the world. Now protests at the home opener of the Chennai Super Kings, based in the capital of Tamil Nadu, have caused the team’s six remaining home games to be moved to Pune, 600 miles away. “The matches had to be shifted out of Chennai, as police had said that they were unable to provide security in the prevailing situation,” I.P.L. Chairman Rajeev Shukla told reporters. There were protests inside and outside the stadium for the opening home game in Chennai on Tuesday. Farmers were joined by activists and some film stars. The police closed roads to the stadium, and at least 20 protesters were arrested. Inside, a pair of shoes was thrown on the field, although no harm was done, and the South African player Faf du Plessis amiably tossed the shoes back in the crowd. Saravanan Hari, a devoted Super Kings fan known for painting himself yellow for games, was reportedly attacked and struck by protesters outside the stadium before the game. “I don’t know why they wanted to hit me. They just hit me and ran away,” he told The News Minute. He said he sympathized with the cause, but wanted the games to be played. “We are CSK fans; we are also Tamilians. We also want TN to get Cauvery water. But we are for the cricket match. Theaters are running movies. Will you stop it?” Cricket officials were concerned about the safety of the players, and police officials were concerned about their ability to manage continuing protests. And everyone was concerned about snakes after a threat to release some at the game. “We have deployed a team of snake catchers from the Guindy national park at the stadium,” a police official told Indian Express. Compounding the controversy was that the game was the first in Chennai in three years. The team is coming off a suspension after corruption and match-fixing charges. That lack of recent cricket in Chennai prompted a high level of anticipation for the game and an enthusiastic capacity crowd. Chennai’s team includes overseas stars like Dwayne Bravo of Trinidad and Shane Watson of Australia, as well as M.S. Dhoni, a former captain of the Indian national team. Chennai won the game when Ravindra Jadeja hit a six on the next-to-last ball, and moved to 2-0 on the season. In recent years, Chennai’s sports scene has been marked more by the absence of I.P.L. cricket than by its presence. In addition to the ban for 2016 and 2017, Chennai’s home games in 2014 were moved to Ranchi, 1,000 miles away, because of a dispute between the stadium and the state. Now Chennai must wait at least another year for the return of the league.