 MONTREAL — Hours before the puck drops at Bell Centre, Élise Béliveau can be found in the Salon des Anciens Canadiens. She converses with family and friends, sharing laughs and stories of yesteryear in a room where walls are decorated with framed photographs of her husband, Jean Béliveau, who won 10 Stanley Cups as a Canadiens player and seven more as a team executive. As she greets team staff members near the club’s dressing room, arriving players from the current Canadiens smile and wave hello. She takes her seat three rows behind the Montreal bench minutes before the opening face-off, her white hair a beacon noticeable from the last row of the packed arena, where her husband’s No. 4 is ubiquitous. Élise Béliveau still loves the Montreal Canadiens. And the feeling is mutual. “Jean Béliveau set the standard on how we should carry ourselves as players on the Montreal Canadiens,” said Max Pacioretty, who is playing in his 10th season with the franchise and his third as its captain. “When I think of the perfect captain, I think of him. Seeing his wife behind the bench at games is always motivating for me. When I see her behind the bench after the anthem, I think of him, and it puts me in a different zone.” Élise Béliveau, 85, has been a part of the Canadiens’ family for more than 60 years, becoming hockey royalty when she and Jean married at St. Patrick’s Church in Quebec City in June 1953. She recently became a great-grandmother with the arrival of Arthur, named for Jean’s father. Jean Béliveau, the gifted center known as Le Gros Bill, scored 507 goals over his two-decade career. Three years after his death, his wife remains steadfast in her support of the squad, a relationship forged when the Montreal Canadiens were perennial champions and core rosters stayed intact for years. “Life goes by fast; it all seems like yesterday,” she said before a home game last month against the Toronto Maple Leafs as she joined her daughter, Hélène, in her family’s corner of the alumni lounge. “What I remember most about when Jean was playing was that we were all a family. We all went out together and had fun. When you’re young, all you think about is having fun.” On this evening, there is surplus star power at Bell Centre. Joining the gregarious former Canadiens winger Réjean Houle, the president of the team’s alumni association, were the Montreal greats Yvan Cournoyer and Frank Mahovlich, the former Rangers star Rod Gilbert and the Toronto Hall of Famer Dave Keon. Élise Béliveau reveled in their presence, herself a luminary among luminaries. She laughed when asked how it felt to be a legend. “He was the star,” she said of Jean, captain of the Canadiens for 10 seasons. “I just followed, and that was it.” Equipped with stories of Canadiens greats across the decades, like Toe Blake, Elmer Lach, Maurice Richard and Bernie Geoffrion, Béliveau could reminisce for days. Some of her best vignettes are not even about hockey. She met her husband on a blind date while he was playing junior hockey in Quebec. While they were getting to know each other, she drove them everywhere in her mother’s Studebaker. “I didn’t know a thing about hockey, and he didn’t like driving,” she said. “So I taught him to drive and he taught me about hockey.” Bobby Rousseau, 77, who played for the Canadiens throughout the 1960s, remains close to the Béliveau family. His earliest connection to the Béliveaus left a lasting imprint. “When I first came up with the Canadiens, we were living not very far from one another — in Longueuil, on the South Shore — and it was quite an honor for my wife and I to go to Jean’s home after games and have one or two beers,” said Rousseau, who won the Stanley Cup four times with Montreal. “For him to do that was quite a nice gesture.” Stories like Rousseau’s abound. Jude Drouin, a 20-year-old rookie forward during the 1968-69 season, said his first game at the Montreal Forum was especially memorable because of Béliveau. Drouin planned to leave two tickets for his parents, but when he checked at the box office, there were none. “I go back to the dressing room, put on my long johns and I’m stretching out next to Jacques Laperrière,” Drouin said, referring to the Hall of Fame defenseman. “We were joking around and he asked me who would be at the game. I told him my parents, but they won’t be able to get in because the tickets weren’t there. He said, ‘That’s not right,’ and went to speak to Jean. Three minutes later, Mr. Béliveau came over and said, ‘Put your pants back on, you’re coming with me.’ He took me down to the ticket office, we knocked on the door and he said, ‘Mr. Drouin is here to get his two tickets for his parents.’” Drouin said that moment almost 50 years ago remained indelible. “That was class,” he said. This tale of good will does not surprise Élise or her daughter. Béliveau, who retired at 39 after winning his 10th Cup in 1971, often attended charity events, signed autographs for fans of every generation and was a larger-than-life presence everywhere he went. “That’s my dad,” Hélène Béliveau said. “He was always doing nice things for people.” The Jean Béliveau Trophy is given annually to a Canadiens player to recognize his charitable activities in the community. P. K. Subban, a favorite of the Béliveaus, was presented with the trophy by Élise in March 2016 after he pledged $10 million to Montreal Children’s Hospital. “I feel very privileged to have known him because everything with Jean was positive, and he respected my passion to play the game,” said Subban, who was traded to Nashville before last season. He added: “It has always been special to see her at games. For her to have a current player respect her husband as I do, that reiterates what he meant to the game, what he meant to the people.” When Jean Béliveau died, the turnout for his public viewing at Bell Centre was overwhelming. “The whole team came and it was so nice to see,” his wife said. “They all came in nicely dressed, two by two. They were all there. They are all nice boys.” The Canadiens hosted Vancouver the night of Jean Béliveau’s funeral. After a pregame ceremony that included the singer Ginette Reno’s heart-tugging rendition of “Ceux qui s’en vont,” Élise Béliveau received a sustained applause tribute with her arms spread wide as her husband’s No. 4 sweater draped the empty seat to her right. “I was thanking everybody,” she said. “Then I started to cry.” She said she had pictures of Jean in every room at home. “Maybe I have too many of them, but it feels good,” she added. “We were 63 years together. You don’t forget that. You never forget.” As Hélène Béliveau settled into a comfortable chair after a scoreless first period between the Canadiens and the Maple Leafs, she surveyed the alumni lounge scene and smiled. “It does feel like family here,” she said. “It’s very cozy.” But angst would increase over the next 40 minutes of hockey as Toronto scored twice in the second period and four times in the third, resulting in a 6-0 loss that left the home crowd murmuring with displeasure. But for Élise Béliveau, who attends about half of the team’s home games, departing early was not an option. “We always stay until the end,” she said. Two weeks later, on the anniversary of Jean’s death, Béliveau was at Bell Centre as the Canadiens erupted for 10 goals at home against another Original Six rival, the Detroit Red Wings. Even dedicated Canadiens fans born well after Jean Béliveau retired are comforted by his wife’s steady presence. “When I look down just to see Mrs. Béliveau in her seat, it brings back memories of the team’s heyday,” said Mike Palmorino, 30, a Canadiens follower since 1991, two years before Montreal won its most recent Stanley Cup. “For me, that means there is always hope. No matter what happens in life, never give up.”