 * Update: Live coverage of the New York City Marathon is here. As a Boston sports fan and history buff, I must view the New York City Marathon, founded in 1970, as an upstart. After all, everyone knows that when it comes to marathoning in America, Boston was first. Not so fast. Yes, the Boston Marathon is the nation’s oldest, run every April since 1897. But though it pains me to acknowledge it, the fact is that the first “Marathon race” ever held in the United States took place in New York. On Sept. 19, 1896, the Knickerbocker Athletic Club held an all-day carnival of competition at Columbia Oval in the Bronx. Amateur athletes from throughout the Northeast went head-to-head in about a dozen events, including the 50-yard dash, pole vault, sack hurdle race and “Running Two Hops and Jump,” according to the next day’s New York Times. Hordes of New Yorkers boarded extra trains to the Oval, and the college’s stadium was “jammed up” early in the morning, reported The Brooklyn Eagle. “The gay dresses of hundreds of pretty women” caught the attention of observers, and a brass band played “with all the vim in the world” such popular tunes as “Down in Poverty Row.” The Knickerbocker club modeled the event on the Olympic Games, revived in Greece a few months prior. That first modern Olympics had included a new road race, inspired by the legend of the military messenger Pheidippides, from the plains of Marathon to the city of Athens, a distance of about 24.5 miles. (The 26.2-mile distance wouldn’t be standardized until years later.) To lend the proceedings in the Bronx the same ancient Greek flavor, the Knickerbockers included discus throwing, a chariot race (though that was scuttled when some of the chariots collapsed) and a roughly 24-mile foot race on the roads from Stamford, Conn., to the Bronx, finishing with two laps around the stadium track. Thirty men took the train from New York to Stamford that morning, were shown to dressing quarters, and changed into track suits. Shortly after noon, an official fired a revolver into the air, and the runners were on their way. A hot sun burned away that morning’s rain. A team of bicycle attendants alongside, the runners covered the first five miles with confidence, though few had truly trained for the distance. Many of the competitors were simply daredevils. Thanks to that old yarn about Pheidippides, the specter of sudden and noble death at the finish line thrilled Victorian-era sport fans. Nobody died, but once the young men passed through Greenwich’s town center, the effort began to take a toll. Several dropped out about halfway through. One threw himself against a fence, exhausted, as another sprawled on the roadside, and a third was carried into a “convenient drug store,” said The Eagle. It didn’t help that the roads suffered from decades of neglect. The marathon route followed the old Boston Post Road, a vital artery for horse-drawn stagecoaches in Colonial times. But in 1896, sleek, steam-powered locomotive trains moved people and goods more efficiently on steel railroad tracks, and the highways went largely ignored. The historic Post Road was now cluttered with “rocks, ruts, and thank-you-marms” (large bumps), wrote one contemporary. The men plodded through Port Chester, Rye, Harrison, Mamaroneck, Larchmont, New Rochelle and Eastchester. Curious, cheering spectators lined the streets of each village and town. For much of the race, John McDermott and Louis Liebgold ran neck and neck to lead the pack. McDermott was “a little lank fellow,” The Eagle wrote, and he worked during the week as a lithographer. Liebgold “hadn’t trained an hour for the race.” Eventually the latter “became muscle bound and was obliged to drop into a walk.” In the Bronx, the discus throwers stopped at the cry, “Here comes the Marathon race!” Suddenly, “the crowd was howling itself hoarse,” The Times reported. McDermott appeared, “his clothes purple with perspiration,” said The Eagle. As the lithe lithographer trotted around the track to break the tape, he “waved his arms to the women on the grand stand, who stood up and shook their handkerchiefs as he ambled past.” His time: 3 hours 25 minutes 55 seconds. Behind McDermott, some of the runners “managed to reach the finish and to trot once around the track, spurred to the best possible conclusion of their effort by the cheers and plaudits of two thousands persons,” The Times reported. “But the greater number of those who entered found mud and stones, hills and humidity, too much for them, and, after valiant struggles and combats with breath and strength, came back to New York in trains.” Six months later, the Boston Athletic Association started its own marathon, which McDermott also won. The Boston race would be repeated annually, whereas the Knickerbocker run proved a one-off. Even The Times forgot about it: When a Yonkers club organized its own long run more than a decade later, in November 1907, the paper called it “the first big Marathon race ever held in the vicinity of New York.” But my great-grand-uncle William J. Kennedy never forgot. He saw the Knickerbocker race when it passed through Port Chester. Twelve years old then, he leapt into the road and ran alongside McDermott and Liebgold for a mile. It was a watershed moment for the boy who grew up to become “Bricklayer Bill,” winner of the 1917 Boston Marathon. Decades later, Bill played a small but key role in keeping the Boston Marathon alive after World War II. He mentored younger runners who in turn mentored the likes of Bill Rodgers, who dominated the Boston and New York marathons in the 1970s and inspired new generations to lace up and hit the road. In that sense, the Knickerbocker marathon still echoes, just underneath the sounds of pounding feet along the streets of the five boroughs every November.