 PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — The men’s Olympic downhill ski event was postponed from Sunday to Thursday because of high winds that were expected to continue for about a day and a half. The severe conditions caused organizers to shuffle other parts of the Alpine skiing schedule. The men’s super-G, which had been scheduled for Thursday, was moved to Friday. There were reasons besides the forecast for moving the men’s downhill four days later in the week. It allowed Olympic organizers to preserve part of the schedule that featured two prominent women’s Alpine races, the giant slalom and slalom. They are set for early Monday and Wednesday here, which will be Sunday and Tuesday nights in the United States. Those events are the first races at these Games for the American Mikaela Shiffrin, the overall women’s World Cup champion and a defending Olympic champion in slalom. That made the decision to delay the men’s downhill to Thursday a victory of sorts for NBC Universal, which paid nearly $1 billion for the Pyeongchang Olympics media rights in the United States and has heavily promoted Shiffrin in the run-up to the Games. Her opening event can now still be broadcast on a night when television viewing is generally high. The forecast isn’t pretty for the women’s giant slalom here on Monday. It calls for winds that may gust to 40 miles an hour. However, those conditions are unlikely to be considered unsafe enough to cause a postponement because, unlike downhill racers, the entrants in the giant slalom do not reach speeds of 90 miles an hour or become airborne on jumps. Strong gusts could create inequitable conditions for the giant slalom, possibly giving one racer a powerful wind at her back and forcing another to ski into a stiff uphill wind. That could level the playing field, so to speak, and bring favorites like Shiffrin back to the pack if they have bad luck with the elements. The men’s postponement was not a surprise to the competitors. The downhill racers are all staying in the mountains near the racecourse, which was whipped by winds exceeding 60 miles an hour overnight. “We kind of expected this downhill to be postponed due to wind,” said Sasha Rearick, the United States’ head Alpine coach. “With this being an outdoor sport, it is not abnormal.” “Now,” Rearick added, “the key is to take that energy and harness it, stay relaxed, and then be able to ramp back up.” For Olympic organizers, the goal is to keep the Alpine schedule on track to preserve the timing of another high-profile event, the women’s super-G, which is scheduled for Saturday. That will be the first event here for another featured racer: Lindsey Vonn, the downhill champion of the 2010 Vancouver Games, who would be making her first Olympic appearance in eight years.