 PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — It was exactly noon, 12 o’clock high, when Shaun White stared down the halfpipe, looking again for the top of the world. He wondered if, to win a third gold medal at a Winter Olympics, he could do it on the last run. He had been there before. “It was like this crazy déjà vu,” he said at the bottom of the halfpipe in 2018, thinking about Sochi in 2014. “I’m standing there, last guy to go, and I have to put it down.” It did not happen four years ago, a rare disappointment for a man used to nothing but victories. But given an unusual do-over in sports, he did it this time, pulling off something he had not done before, not even in practice — a clean run with back-to-back 1440s, a quadruple corkscrew of sorts, performed in opposite directions on opposite walls. White’s coach, J. J. Thomas, the bronze medalist in 2002, the last time the men’s Olympic halfpipe competition did not include White, called it the best halfpipe run he had ever seen. He suggested that there might not be another athlete who relishes pressure like White does, and rises to meet it with such frequency. As White stood at the top of the pipe, at noon in South Korea and prime time in the United States, the 19-year-old Ayumu Hirano of Japan was in the lead, with a 95.25 point ride. Only one man could beat him. A crowd of cheering voices and clanging bells beckoned White down. “I’m just feeling this time slowing,” he recalled. He dropped in at full speed. Each trick was met with a collective gasp, then a celebratory exhale of relief as White raced across the bottom of the pipe to launch himself again. It repeated five times, until he got to the bottom and raised his arms, waiting for a score. It came: 97.75. “I did what I knew I could do, and what I’ve trained to do, and it makes it all so worthwhile,” he said. “And I’m an Olympic gold medalist again. Wow.” Again, and again, and again. White has been an Olympic gold medalist for 12 years now, and as a professional Olympian, of sorts, he often breaks down his life in quadrennial chunks. There was the culmination of a life’s work at the 2006 Turin Games, then the validation of a repeat in 2010 at Vancouver. Both times, he secured gold before his last run and could take a victory lap to soak in the affection. It all felt so easy. Then came the disappointment of Sochi, where he had a chance to win with his last run. The lead-up to Sochi, he said, was exhausting. White, in his mid-20s, threw himself into far more than snowboarding — his many business ventures, playing guitar for a band, even learning Spanish. He was a celebrity as much as an athlete. “I was trying not to let life pass me by,” he said. He did the run. He finished fourth. “In Sochi, I just didn’t have it in me,” White said at the bottom of the halfpipe on Wednesday. “It’s awful to admit it, but yeah, I was unmotivated, slightly defeated before I got there.” In White’s world, there is no other excuse for not winning — not a slushy halfpipe or just an off night. His loss (and that’s what he called it, not a fourth-place finish, and it’s probably what he would have called a silver medal, too) was part of what motivated him to try again. The segment from there in Sochi to here in Pyeongchang, from age 27 to age 31, was both the hardest and the most rewarding. He rebooted by shedding many of the people around him. “I got a new P.R. person, a new manager, a new agency, a physical therapist,” White said. “I started working out for the first time in my life, I’ll admit.” The time was not without controversy. White was accused by a former bandmate of making sexual remarks to her and making her watch “sexually disturbing videos,” and reached an undisclosed settlement with her last May. White declined to discuss the case during a news conference Wednesday afternoon, hours after his gold medal victory. “I’m here to talk about the Olympics, not gossip,” he said. “I feel like I’ve addressed it.” In October, White crashed during practice in New Zealand and smashed his face. His blood stained the pipe, and Thomas would not look at him. White said he did not recognize himself in the mirror. He needed 62 stitches on his face, lips and tongue. “I completely separated my face,” White said on Wednesday. There were slight scars on his forehead and his nose. The accident made him reconsider his Olympic ambitions. His family reminded him that he had nothing more to prove. He had gold medals and plenty of money. “I’m thinking what does this mean?” White said. “We were on such a great path, and it was that true question of, like: Do I really want this? Stepping out on the snow again means that I’m willing to let this happen to myself again. And that’s a big decision.” He came back. Few were sure how good he could be, given his age, injury and relatively few competitions. Then he won an event to qualify for the team (with a 100-point score). He won the qualifiers on Tuesday in what might now be the second-best halfpipe contest in history, behind the one the next day. White thought he might have won it in the first of three rounds, when judges awarded him 94.25 points. He watched Hirano, the silver medalist in Sochi and long considered an heir apparent to White, take the lead in the second round with a run that included back-to-back 1440s. White knew he had to do it, too, even though he never had, he said. “You could come up on any other day, when all these people aren’t here, and ask me to do that, and I’d be terrified,” he said, a rare admission of fear. “Because there’s no motivation. But when you’ve got the Olympics, and you’ve got the dye on the pipe and the world watching, there was no doubt in my mind I was going to do the trick. I just had to land it.” That is what he was thinking at the top, as the world waited at his feet. And when he soaked in the adulation of fans and conducted slope-side interviews for two hours in the afternoon chill, he already started thinking about the next Olympic cycle — not the four-year one, but the 2020 Summer Games in Tokyo, where skateboarding makes its Olympic debut. After a short break, White said, he plans to get on his skateboard, the only vehicle he handles about as adeptly as a snowboard, to get the competitive juices flowing. “I’d love to give it my all and see what happens,” he said. And nobody would doubt his chances.