 CHICAGO — Over the past three decades in Los Angeles, plenty of stars have worn the Dodger blue and white, players like Mike Piazza, Brett Butler, Hideo Nomo, Gary Sheffield and Matt Kemp. Despite all of their efforts, they could not do what the 2017 Dodgers team accomplished on Thursday night. With a resounding 11-1 victory, the Dodgers knocked out the defending champion Chicago Cubs to claim their first National League pennant since 1988. Now the World Series awaits, where the Dodgers will play either the Yankees or the Houston Astros. If it is the Yankees, it will be the 12th installment of a Series rivalry that overshadows all others. The last time the two clubs met in October was in 1981, when the Dodgers beat the Yankees in six games. In last year’s National League Championship Series, the Dodgers were the ones sent packing, by the Cubs, with the clincher coming in Game 6 at Wrigley Field. On Thursday night, the Dodgers returned the favor in the same ballpark, and it took them only five games to do so. That the Dodgers prevailed in this series was hardly a surprise. The Cubs struggled to win the National League Central this season and after barely surviving a first-round series against the Washington Nationals, looked worn out in the N.L.C.S. Their bullpen, with the exception of closer Wade Davis, was in tatters. Indeed after the game, Cubs Manager Joe Maddon acknowledged how hard it had been for his team to get going this season after winning the World Series a year ago, the team’s first title in 108 years. “That’s what the World Series hangover is,” he said. In contrast, the Dodgers, who won 104 games in the regular season, the most in baseball, have looked energized since the postseason began, and have lost only once so far — a 3-2 defeat in Game 4 on Wednesday that kept the Cubs’ faint hopes alive for one more day. Appropriately enough, the winning pitcher on Thursday night was Clayton Kershaw, the three-time Cy Young Award winner. He was on the mound a year ago when the Cubs hit him around and clinched the N.L.C.S. But on Thursday night, Kershaw allowed only one run over six stout innings to finally earn a pennant to put on his résumé. And outfielder Enrique Hernandez, who epitomizes the Dodgers’ roster of versatile players, supplied nearly all the offense himself by smashing a solo home run, a two-run shot and a grand slam to tie a postseason single-game record of seven R.B.I. “It’s been a long time,” a jubilant Kershaw, who became a Dodger in 2008, said afterward. “It’s not erased yet. We have to win four more games, but ever since I came to the organization it’s been ‘1988, 1988.’ It’s the year I was born, so I know all this stuff. We want to make it ‘2017.’ ” Entering this season, the Dodgers had made 10 playoff appearances since their last World Series run in 1988, when they beat Oakland in five games, but not once could they reach the final round. No other team in baseball has played in the postseason that many consecutive times without at least one trip to the Series. In that frustrating span, the Dodgers reached the N.L.C.S. four times — 2008, 2009, 2013 and 2016 — but stumbled each year. They have also won five straight N.L. West division titles, including this year, but were bounced from the postseason earlier than they hoped each time — until now. At the start of this decade the Dodgers went through franchise turbulence, and eventually Frank McCourt was replaced as owner of the team by Guggenheim Baseball Management, a group led by the billionaire Mark Walter. The Dodgers began to spend, a lot. Since the start of the 2014 season, it has been they, not the Yankees, who have had the highest payroll in baseball. But the Dodgers also hired Andrew Friedman, then the general manager of the small-market and small-budget Tampa Bay Rays, to head the baseball operations. “This ownership came in and did what they said, gave us the tools and gave us the personnel and gave us anything and everything we needed to win, and it was up to us players to achieve that,” said outfielder Andre Ethier, the longest tenured Dodger, who has been in the organization since 2006. And while they spent $192 million over the off-season to keep three of their best players — third baseman Justin Turner, starter Rich Hill, and closer Kenley Jansen — they also filled the roster with both cheaper relievers, such as Josh Fields and Brandon Morrow, and talented young players like shortstop Corey Seager, who was the N.L. Rookie of the Year last year but did not play in this series because of a back injury, and first baseman Cody Bellinger, who may win the award this year. The last time the Dodgers reached the World Series they were led by Manager Tommy Lasorda, pitcher Orel Hershiser and outfielder Kirk Gibson. Lasorda is now 90 and he ambled on to the field at Wrigley Field before Thursday’s game to watch the current crop of Dodgers take batting practice. And then he went and sat in the stands and looked on as the current Dodgers put Game 5 away quickly. “Wouldn’t it be great to play the Yankees?” Lasorda said after the game. “It puts the entire nation, from here to here, all into the baseball view. That’s going to be, if they win it, a great series.” Bellinger’s run-scoring double started the scoring in the first inning. Hernandez saw two pitches combined in his first two at-bats, swung twice, and produced two home runs. After the third-inning grand slam, Hernandez threw a fist into the air as he rounded first base. The Dodgers dugout bounced with glee, and welcomed Hernandez with vigorous high-fives and hugs. Cubs fans could only grimace. They had rejoiced last fall when the Cubs finally ended their epic title drought and probably knew, considering the Cubs’ tortured history, that two titles in a row was far-fetched. Still, watching their team get eliminated at Wrigley Field had to sting, although many of them stuck around as the one-sided game dragged on. Meanwhile, Hernandez just kept going. In the ninth inning, he added his third and final home run, joining players such as Albert Pujols and Reggie Jackson, who have hit three home runs in a postseason game. And after the inning was over, the Dodgers celebrated more forcefully, finally earning a World Series berth after so many failed attempts.