 CHICAGO — One out away from their first victory in the National League Championship Series, the Chicago Cubs’ hopes of defending their first World Series title in 108 years still teetered precariously. The Los Angeles Dodgers’ best hitter, third baseman Justin Turner, who had homered in the previous inning, stood on deck. Chris Taylor represented the tying run at first base. Cubs closer Wade Davis was on the mound, dancing along another high-wire act of a two-inning save. “That’s the right guy to have on the mound,” Cubs first baseman Anthony Rizzo said. Davis rewarded his team’s faith and saved the Cubs’ season for at least one more day, getting the slugging first baseman Cody Bellinger to ground into a game-ending double play and clinching a 3-2 win for Chicago in Game 4 of the N.L.C.S. on Wednesday. Rizzo yelled and Davis pumped his fist. The defending champions were not done yet. “I enjoy being out there in close games and in these type of situations where we have to win,” Davis said. Behind the resurgent bat of Javier Baez and a stellar outing from starter Jake Arrieta, the Cubs narrowed their series deficit to three games to one. Game 5 is Thursday in Chicago, with the Cubs’ Jose Quintana starting against Dodgers’ ace Clayton Kershaw. “Good luck to him,” Baez said of Kershaw during a television interview after the game. There is still a long way to go if the Cubs want to inject true drama into this series. In the first three contests of this best-of-seven series, the Cubs were little match for the well-rounded Dodgers, who led the major leagues with 104 wins in the regular season and had yet to lose a postseason game entering Wednesday. “We’re still not on track as a team,” Baez said. “But I think if we get back on track, everybody as a team, we’re going to be the best again.” Baez, who was hitless in the postseason entering Wednesday’s game, became the first Cubs player to record a multi-homer postseason game in 14 years, sending one ball past left field onto Waveland Avenue. Willson Contreras added another homer off the video scoreboard in left-center field. The Cubs’ salvage efforts began with Arrieta. His two terrific starts in the World Series last year helped push the Cubs to their long-awaited title. He seemed to channel those outings on the mound on Wednesday. He spun six and two-thirds strong innings. While he walked five, he pitched out of jams, struck out nine and allowed only one run on three hits. He outpitched Dodgers starter Alex Wood, who was an All-Star this season but looked rusty on Wednesday. “He was throwing Wiffle balls,” Rizzo said of Arrieta. “Guys were swinging at balls that started in the zone and finished a foot off the plate.” Because the Dodgers have cruised so easily through these playoffs, Wood, the team’s No. 4 postseason starter, did not have an opportunity to start until Wednesday — his first start since Sept. 26. Wood pitched adequately; he struck out seven and walked none of the 18 batters he faced. But his mistakes — and even some good pitches — were clobbered by the Cubs. Contreras bashed a high fastball from Wood in the second inning off the giant scoreboard, a 491-foot home run that Contreras admired as he departed the batter’s box. Two batters later, Baez smashed a ball down the left field line and over the stands in left field. This one was only 437 feet, but Baez, too, dropped his bat to admire it. It was a welcome jolt out of his postseason slump. Baez, who is from Puerto Rico, said the arduous recovery from Hurricane Maria on his native island had weighed heavily on him and contributed to his struggles during the playoffs. “Before the playoffs, I was so ready to go home because my whole family was over there,” he said. “Finally got to bring my mom here. But still, my whole family’s over there in the hard situation. It’s hard to keep that away, but we’ve got to take care of business.” Baez and the game epitomized modern baseball in that all the runs came via the long ball. Bellinger trimmed the deficit to 2-1 with a line-drive solo homer in the third inning. The Cubs extended their lead when Baez thumped his second home run on a low changeup from Wood. Each home run lit up the Cubs’ dugout, where the Chicago players didn’t look nearly as worn or downtrodden as they had in the previous three games. Cubs relievers danced in the bullpen after each long ball, as they have during the season. But little in this postseason has been easy for the Cubs, and that trend continued. With a two-run lead entering the eighth, Cubs Manager Joe Maddon brought in a well-rested Davis. Maddon had been questioned for not using Davis in Game 2, which the Dodgers won on a walk-off home run by Turner off John Lackey, an inferior pitcher. Davis had thrown 44 pitches in the deciding game of the previous round, which left him tired. With the season on the line, Maddon turned to Davis to get six outs, and the closer sputtered. Turner hit the fifth pitch Davis threw for a towering solo home run, and it was a one-run game. The Cubs found more drama later in the inning when a swinging strike three against Dodgers outfielder Curtis Granderson was ruled to be a foul tip after the umpires huddled and discussed the play. As they did so, the Wrigley Field video board looped a replay that seemed to show that Granderson hadn’t made contact with Davis’s pitch. Maddon came onto the field, stomping and yelling, and was eventually ejected. “That can’t happen,” Maddon said after the game. “The process was horrible. To have that changed — and if Granderson hits the next pitch out, I might come running out of the clubhouse in my jockstrap. That was really that bad.” After the game, the home plate umpire Jim Wolf later admitted his mistake. “After looking at it, I was dead wrong,” he said. “I talked myself into the whole thing.” Granderson struck out anyway, and that moment did not affect the final score, but Maddon displayed the still-burning energy of the Cubs. Davis still had a jam after he walked a second batter, his pitch count ballooning above 30. Yet he wriggled out of it by striking out Chase Utley. He put himself in another quandary in the ninth inning, with Turner looming. “I never think about the hitter on the deck too much,” Davis said. So he channeled his adrenaline one more time to earn a victory and breathe life into the Cubs once more.