 The Atlanta Hawks will soon hire longtime N.B.A. executive Michelle Leftwich to join their front office as a top aide to general manager Travis Schlenk, according to three people with direct knowledge of the situation, making her one of the league’s highest-ranking women in basketball operations. Leftwich, who has worked in the league office for more than two decades, is expected join the Hawks next month as their new vice president for salary cap administration, said the people, who requested anonymity because they are not authorized to discuss the situation publicly. The Hawks, according to the people, are hiring Leftwich to closely assist and advise Schlenk on salary cap matters, league rules and planning on signings and trades. Leftwich joined the N.B.A.’s administration in 1996 and has spent the last decade as the vice president and assistant general counsel to Rick Buchanan, N.B.A. general counsel and chief compliance officer. In that role, Leftwich has focused on various legal dealings while also working in basketball operations at the league level on matters such as player contracts, collective bargaining, trade approvals and both league and team operations. The N.B.A. ranks as the most gender-diverse men’s sports league in North American team sports, according to Richard Lapchick, the director of the University of Central Florida’s Institute of Diversity and Ethics in Sport, whose research asserts that the N.B.A. has the highest percentage of women in executive positions with teams as well as the league office, ahead of the N.F.L. and Major League Baseball. Yet the presence of women with a post as high as the vice president level in basketball operations, compared to jobs on the business side, remains relatively rare among N.B.A. teams. Leftwich’s known peers at that level include Linda Luchetti, the Utah Jazz vice president of basketball operations; and Teresa Resch, the Toronto Raptors vice president of basketball operations and player development. Other high-ranking women in front-office jobs include Becky Bonner, the Orlando Magic director of player development and quality control; Amanda Green, the Oklahoma City Thunder basketball operations coordinator for legal affairs and administration; Nanea McGuigan, the Golden State Warriors director of basketball administration and player programs; Annabel Padilla, the Hawks director of player engagement; and Analisa Rodriguez, the San Antonio Spurs director of player services. On the floor, former W.N.B.A. star Becky Hammon is the league’s lone active female assistant coach, with the Spurs, while Lauren Holtkamp is the N.B.A.’s only active female referee. In the N.B.A. players’ union, Michele Roberts was named executive director in July 2014, becoming the first woman to lead a major professional sports union in North America. In the league office, Michelle Johnson was recently hired as the N.B.A.’s senior vice president and head of referee operations, joining two other women — Kimberly F. Bohuny, the N.B.A.’s senior vice president of international basketball operations; and Bethany Donaphin, the associate vice president of basketball operations – at a top executive level. Before joining the N.B.A. in 1996, Leftwich worked for the New York law firm formerly known as Paul, Hastings, Janofsky &amp; Walker. A Buffalo, N.Y., native, she graduated from Canisius College and New York University School of Law.