 PITTSBURGH — Miami’s quest for a perfect season is over. The Hurricanes can only hope their shot at a spot in the College Football Playoff is not gone, too. Quarterback Kenny Pickett, a freshman, ran for two touchdowns and threw for another as Pittsburgh stunned the second-ranked Hurricanes, 24-14, on Friday. Pickett bulled over from 6 yards in the first half, flipped a 5-yard shovel pass to Qadree Ollison in the third quarter to put the Panthers up 10 and gave Pitt (5-7, 3-5 Atlantic Coast Conference) all the cushion it would need with a 22-yard fourth-down sprint to the end zone with 2 minutes 54 seconds remaining. Pickett completed 18 of 29 passes for 193 yards and the one score while adding 60 yards rushing in his first career start as Pitt finished a disappointing season with a decisive stunner that could put a dent in the Hurricanes’ national title hopes. Miami quarterback Malik Rosier completed 15 of 34 passes for 187 yards and two scores but was ineffective for most of the day, and he was briefly replaced by the backup Evan Shirreffs in the fourth quarter. The Hurricanes (10-1, 7-1 A.C.C.) were held to a season-low 229 yards. The Hurricanes said they had learned their lesson after spotting Virginia a two-touchdown lead the week before, then recovering to extend the nation’s longest winning streak to 15 games. Yet Miami walked onto the Heinz Field turf in a weird spot. The Hurricanes are well aware that their meeting with No. 4 Clemson in the conference championship game next Saturday will serve as the ultimate arbiter of whether they belong in the College Football Playoff. The loss to Pitt could become irrelevant if the Hurricanes beat Clemson, the defending national champion, in Charlotte, N.C. “We have no idea what’s going to happen in the big picture,” Miami Coach Mark Richt said. “How many teams lost a game on a Friday and came back and got in the top four? How many teams lost one game and won a conference championship and got right back in it? Who knows? So we don’t know.” Flat at the start and flatter at the finish, the Hurricanes let the swagger they developed during their rebirth under Richt evaporate against the Panthers, who know a thing or two about pulling off the improbable. A year ago, the Panthers handed Clemson its only loss of the season with a thrilling road victory in Death Valley. A decade ago they stunned West Virginia in the regular-season finale, a setback that cost the Mountaineers a spot in the Bowl Championship Series title game. Pitt Coach Pat Narduzzi referred to that history during a brief sideline interview as his team returned to the field after halftime. “It happened in West Virginia, where we knocked off No. 2,” Narduzzi said, with his team leading by 10-3. “It happened in South Carolina, and it’s happening in Pittsburgh today.” Pitt’s defense frustrated Rosier all afternoon, tipping passes at the line of scrimmage and creating pressure that forced him into the kind of mistakes he has avoided for much of the season. Even when he had time, Rosier was sloppy, overthrowing open receivers. “I guess I got complacent,” Rosier said. “I was just out there to be out there. I was going through my reads instead of dialing in and focusing in on every snap. After that, it put this football game in perspective that at any moment I could get pulled. It hurts.”