 ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — There are baselines and there are battle lines, and with spring training underway, both have now been drawn. The players are upset that so many free agents remain unsigned. They also do not want rule changes to speed up the action. Commissioner Rob Manfred believes the market is functioning just fine — and he plans to impose new rules before exhibition games begin next week, no matter what the players’ association thinks. “There are going to be rule changes with respect to pace of play for the 2018 season,” Manfred said at Tropicana Field on Thursday, in his annual news conference to open spring training. “You’ll know about those rule changes before we start playing spring training games. One way or the other, those changes are going be as a result of an agreement with the M.L.B.P.A.” One way, Manfred said, would be through an agreement with the players’ association on specific proposals — a pitch clock, limits on the number of mound visits, etc. The other, which would surely inflame a suddenly tense labor relationship, would be the unilateral imposition of new rules, a right granted to Manfred for this season under the collective bargaining agreement. That agreement, negotiated after the 2016 season, runs through 2021. But it already seems to have hurt the players by discouraging owners from overpaying free agents. Several teams are undergoing protracted rebuilding processes, keeping payrolls low while taking their time to construct younger, cheaper rosters. The worse a team’s record, the more money it is allowed to spend on amateur talent. Just one free agent, the Chicago Cubs’ Yu Darvish, has signed a contract worth more than $80 million this off-season. The union is running a camp for unsigned players in Bradenton, Fla., though few high-impact players are attending and the camp is closed to the public, the news media and team officials. Several prominent free agents are clients of the agent Scott Boras, including Eric Hosmer, J.D. Martinez, Jake Arrieta, Mike Moustakas, Greg Holland, Carlos Gomez, Carlos Gonzalez and Tony Watson. Manfred did not mention Boras by name on Thursday, but the target of his comments seemed obvious. “Drawing lines in the sand based on a perception that your market value is something different than what the market is telling you your value is, that doesn’t make a lot of sense,” Manfred said. “It is a fact that markets dictate value. Values are not dictated by big, thick, three-ring binders and rhetoric about who’s better than whom. They’re dictated by markets. That’s the system we negotiated.” Boras, who often presents teams with exhaustive research on the value of his clients, has excoriated teams for failing to field competitive rosters this off-season. “This is not about the ability to pay,” Boras said last month. “It’s about choices.” Many players and agents are suspicious of the industry’s seemingly abrupt choice to show restraint in free agency. Owners were found guilty of collusion three times in the 1980s, a strategy that effectively robbed players of nearly $300 million and helped create a labor environment so poisonous that a work stoppage canceled the 1994 World Series. Manfred insisted on Thursday that teams had acted appropriately this off-season. “We believe that players who are major league players will eventually get signed, whatever that timetable turns out to be, and we wish them the best of luck in that regard,” he said. “But I can tell you one thing for certain: Clubs have conducted themselves in a manner that’s completely consistent with the agreement we made with the M.L.B.P.A.” Manfred said that teams had always gone through rebuilding cycles, and even if they were not splurging for veteran free agents, “they’re in a process that is directed at winning.” He disputed the notion that players were now getting a smaller portion of revenue in the sport, which generated around $10 billion last year. “We have been at a very stable — approximately 50 percent of revenue going to player salaries — for five, six, seven years,” Manfred said. “The math of that means that salaries are growing in line with revenues.” Players have noticed the absence of some of their peers from training camps. Two everyday players for the Mets in recent seasons, first baseman Lucas Duda and second baseman Neil Walker, are among the unsigned. Others still seeking jobs include catcher Jonathan Lucroy, first baseman Logan Morrison and starters Alex Cobb, Lance Lynn and Jason Vargas. “It’s crazy,” said outfielder Jay Bruce, who returned to the Mets with a three-year, $39 million deal after seeking much more in free agency. “I’ve never seen anything like it. I just hope everyone will get to where they want to get and find a job.” The Yankees brought back pitcher C. C. Sabathia for one year and $10 million — a significant cut from the $25 million he earned last season, when he was 14-5 with a 3.69 earned run average. Sabathia, 37, understands why the market has changed. “When I was a free agent, you got paid for what you did,” Sabathia said. “Now, guys are getting paid for what they can do throughout their contract. So it’s just a different landscape in baseball the way teams are changing. G.M.s are getting younger and smarter, and want to get more value out of a player.” Valuable players remain unsigned, and the game goes on without them.