 For the first time in the history of snow and ice, Nigeria, a country with a dearth of snow and ice, is on the verge of having athletes in the Winter Olympics. Driver Seun Adigun and brakewomen Ngozi Onwumere and Akuoma Omeoga, who are all track athletes born in the United States to Nigerian parents, successfully finished five qualifying races, putting a spot in the women’s bobsled competition well within their grasp. The team, which has been helped by a successful GoFundMe campaign, would compete in the two-woman event in Pyeongchang, South Korea, in February. (Adigun would be the driver; either brakewoman would hop into the sled with her.) It’s a familiar story, really. Seemingly every four years there are instances of athletes from countries where there isn’t really cold weather making it to the Games. The apotheosis, no doubt, was the Jamaican bobsled team that inspired the 1993 film “Cool Runnings,” the chef-d’oeuvre that forced filmmakers to abandon everything that was previously understood about bobsled movies. Prince Hubertus of Hohenlohe-Langenburg, though born in Mexico, descended from German royalty and spent most of his life in Europe, where he learned to ski. A scarcity of Alpine skiers from Mexico presented an opportunity. He also made it to the Games in 1988, 1992, 1994, 2010 and 2014, when he was 55. His best finish was 26th in the 1984 slalom in Sarajevo. “In life you have a couple of opportunities and openings,” he told Time. “And one of them was that I was born in Mexico. Sure, I used it to my favor. But not in an abusive way.” George Tucker lived near Albany and went to Wesleyan University in Connecticut. But he was born in Puerto Rico, which gave him a chance to compete in luge at the Sarajevo Games as a representative of the island. Tucker, a physicist, did not have a typical athlete’s body. When he was introduced at the Sarajevo Games as George Turkey, he said, “The man knows more English than he lets on,” Sports Illustrated reported. He was 30th of 30 finishers, but returned in 1988 and beat lugers from the Philippines and the Netherlands Antilles. The superstar of the tropical Winter Games entries: the Jamaican bobsled team. The idea was conceived by an American, George Fitch, who reasoned that outstanding Jamaican runners would make outstanding bobsled pushers. Swarmed by fans and the news media throughout the Calgary Games, the two-man team finished 30th, and the four-man team crashed. “At first I was skeptical because I did not know you steered it,” said the team’s driver, Dudley Stokes, a military helicopter pilot. “The bobsled is nonstop action. That one minute on the run outweighs anything in a helicopter.” Add John Candy, and you’ve got a hit movie. The team has returned for several more Games, with a 14th-place finish in the four-man event in 1994, its best finish. Raymond Kayrouz of Lebanon was making his way, slowly, down the giant slalom course in Albertville, Fance, when something unusual happened. He was passed. Another warm-weather skier, El Hassan Matha of Morocco, who started 40 seconds after Kayrouz, was fast enough to cruise by. Both skiers ended up missing gates and were disqualified. To be clear, Australia has snowfall and ski resorts. But the country had been far from a Winter Olympics powerhouse, winning no medals from its debut in 1936 to 1992. It finally won a couple of bronzes, but the breakthrough came in 2002 in Salt Lake City, in an improbable way. A relatively unheralded short-track speedskater, Steven Bradbury, advanced out of the quarterfinals of the 1,000 meters on a disqualification. In the semifinals, skaters in front of him crashed, sending him into the final. Bradbury intentionally laid off the pace, knowing he wasn’t fast enough to win and hoping for another crash that might get him a medal. Amazingly, all four of the other finalists, including the American star Apolo Anton Ohno, crashed on the frantic last lap. That left Bradbury to skate past them for a stunning gold medal. “Hang on a minute, I think I just won,” he said to himself. Bradbury was honored with a stamp in Australia, and his victory seemed to open the floodgates for Aussie success. The nation has picked up four more golds, and shines especially in the newer freestyle events. Dow Travers’s pedigree included time at the prestigious Harrow School in England and Brown University. His father was the chairman of the Cayman stock exchange. A good enough rugby player to play on the Cayman Islands national team, Travers also tried his hand at Alpine skiing, becoming the first Winter Olympian from his country. He placed 69th in the giant slalom in Vancouver. He returned in 2014, but failed to finish. His name is Fuahea Semi, or is it Bruno Banani? A Tongan luger, he made it to the 2014 Sochi Games and took on the name Bruno Banani, at the behest of a German underwear company of that name. Thomas Bach, the president of the International Olympic Committee, called it a “perverse marketing idea.” Semi/Banani placed 32nd in Sochi, ahead of seven other lugers, including sliders from Moldova, Bulgaria and Taiwan. Not only was Vanessa Vanakorn an Alpine skier from the unlikely country of Thailand, she was also a well-known violinist under the name Vanessa-Mae. The combination led to a blizzard of news media coverage in Sochi. Even by the standards of tropical athletes, her performance was poor: 67th of 67 skiers who finished, a full 11 seconds behind the Chinese athlete in 66th. Soon questions were being raised about her eligibility. Qualifying results in four races were said to have been rigged in her favor. She was initially barred for four years, but that was overturned when the Court of Arbitration for Sport ruled that there was not enough evidence that she knew about the fixing. Besides Nigeria, new nations at the Winter Games in Pyeongchang are expected to be Eritrea (a Canadian-born Alpine skier) and Malaysia (an Alpine skier and a figure skater). Expect plenty of colorful feature stories, and at least a million references to “Cool Runnings,” the cinematic triumph of genre-bending artistry.