 The United States women’s gymnastics team has no coordinator. It has no training center. It has lost its biggest sponsors. Its governing body is under investigation by multiple congressional committees and recently jettisoned its entire board of directors. From the biggest sexual abuse case in sports, the institution of U.S.A. Gymnastics has emerged tattered and disgraced: censured for systematically failing to report predators, accused of fostering abusive training environments and condemned by many of its own stars. But there are still gymnasts training 30 to 40 hours a week in pursuit of lifelong dreams: National team membership. World titles. The 2020 Olympics. They are distinct from their governing body. And they are worried that this reckoning, essential though it is, will hold them back in a sport whose window for success can be painfully short. “We don’t have a year or two to settle down,” Margzetta Frazier, 18, a member of the national team, wrote this month in a tweet liked more than 1,200 times. “We cannot put our bodies on hold. Time is not on our side.” On Feb. 4, at least 20 elite gymnasts — including almost every national team member — posted a photo on Instagram or Twitter of a lineup at a national training camp, accompanied by a chain-link emoji and the hashtag #wst, short for “we stand together.” The message was twofold, several of them said in interviews: solidarity with the more than 250 women abused by the former national team doctor, and determination not to let the catastrophic failings of the sport’s officials derail its athletes. Jordan Chiles, 16, the runner-up at last year’s national championships, said the hashtag campaign “was something we decided to do together to show our support to our teammates, to our sport and to let everyone know that we are still standing strong. That we are unbreakable links in a chain.” Few gymnasts say they will miss Martha and Bela Karolyi’s Texas ranch, where the women’s national team trained for nearly 20 years until U.S.A. Gymnastics cut ties in January. Many were molested there by the former team doctor Lawrence G. Nassar, and the Karolyis are accused of creating an environment that both facilitated his predation and was abusive in its own right. In the past week, both The Associated Press and The Dallas Morning News published major investigations of mistreatment there. But many gymnasts do miss the monthly camps where they trained with the national team staff and performed their routines as though they were in competition. Contenders for approaching international events attended a selection camp at Louisiana State University on Sunday, but the regular camps have not been held since November. “Camps are not just about training,” said Olivia Dunne, 15, who has attended them since she was 10. “At each camp, we compete and get experience completing routines under pressure.” Jade Carey, 17, a double medalist at last year’s world championships, said the hiatus had made it difficult to receive guidance from the national staff. And because few gyms have more than one elite gymnast at a time, many national team members — far more skilled than anyone around them in daily training — count on the camps to show them their competition. At home, Adeline Kenlin, 15, is “a big fish in a little pond,” her coach Mary Wise said. “We look forward to the training camps as an environment that pushes her.” Valeri Liukin’s resignation as national team coordinator this month, less than two years after he took over from Martha Karolyi, also came as a shock. Liukin said at the time that he had been “looking forward to trying to turn this program around,” but that “the present climate causes me, and more importantly my family, far too much stress, difficulty and uncertainty.” Asked whether they were worried that the institutional upheaval would affect their ability to compete internationally, gymnasts said it already had. U.S.A. Gymnastics has withdrawn from two competitions — the International Gymnix in Canada, held in March, and the City of Jesolo Trophy in Italy, held in April — that are often the first international experience for new national team members. At least eight gymnasts, including Kenlin, have arranged to compete individually in Jesolo at their own expense. Beyond the practical difficulties of being a national team member without the accouterments of a national team, gymnasts are struggling to come to terms with a harsh spotlight. The current and former athletes speaking out against U.S.A. Gymnastics have made a point to distinguish between the organization and the sport. But to some not involved in gymnastics, the revelations of abuse seem to define it. In one widely shared article last month, a Sports Illustrated columnist declared: “American gymnastics is no longer a sport. It’s a conspiracy of pedophiles and their enablers.” The notion that American gymnastics was synonymous with the failures of its governing body has not sat well with American gymnasts, including Simone Biles, the 2016 Olympic all-around champion. Biles, 20, a survivor of Nassar’s abuse who began training again last year, wrote pointedly on Twitter that gymnasts “don’t stop working hard just because our organization is falling apart.” Asked what they wanted the public to know, every gymnast interviewed said largely the same thing. None disputed the importance of organizational and cultural change in U.S.A. Gymnastics. But they did not want their work and goals to be ignored. “There are still kids working hard,” Kenlin said. “There are still kids trying to achieve their dreams.” “There will always be unexpected ups and downs on the road to success,” Carey added, “but we will continue to support each other and not let anything or anyone destroy us or our love for gymnastics.” Wise, Kenlin’s coach, said it sometimes felt as if, in the push to make the sport safe for future generations, the current generation had been forgotten. “These kids are working hard, and we are hoping that their dreams don’t get damaged by the ripple effect from what has happened,” she said. “Their dreams are important. We want to see them have their chance, too.”