 The drama really began when the N.C.A.A. tournament expanded to 64 teams in 1985. Now anyone who could read and count had a neat, perfectly intelligible blank bracket to fill out. In the years since that expansion, memorable events have created a number of truisms about what transpires. Many are counterintuitive, favoring those upsets and surprising teams that we hold so dear. —— Follow our live coverage of March Madness here. —— But most of these truisms are false. Generally speaking, the supposedly unpredictable tournament is a lot more predictable than many think. As you fill out your bracket, consider these rules of thumb you may follow — and then consider not following them.  Tell this to the 2012 Kentucky team and the 2015 Duke squad. Both teams had three freshmen who left college after a single season as their biggest stars and won it all. ​Two teams may​ not sound like a lot, but the one-and-done era is barely a decade old, and Duke’s Mike Krzyzewski and other notable coaches have begun recruiting these kinds of players in recent years. This year’s prime one-and-done team is, no surprise, Duke. We focus on the Cinderella stories. We remember the early upsets. We consider the tough matchups in the Round of 8. We think picking a No. 1 seed to defeat all comers in its quadrant seems like a bad idea. It’s not. Top seeds have comprised 42 percent of all Final Four teams since 1985. There were only two years when none made it. In 2008, all four top seeds made the Final Four. Fortune may favor the bold, but maybe don’t be too bold.  This is the most celebrated first-round upset pick, because it nearly always happens once: Only twice since 2000 has a No. 5 seed not lost to a No. 12 seed. But over all, since 1985, the No. 5 seeds have won nearly two-thirds of their opening-round games. If you are picking all four No. 12s to win, you are probably doing it wrong; the numbers say pick one or two at most. Slightly more No. 11s have beaten No. 6s. The No. 13 seed has beaten a No. 4 in the first round only 20 percent of the time. And most famously: no No. 16 has beaten a No. 1. Yet. A good defense can get you far, but top defensive teams have tended to fall short in recent years​. Last year, Gonzaga had the country’s best defense, per KenPom.com, and lost the championship game to North Carolina, a strong defensive team that was stronger on offense. Other teams with highly-rated defenses and offenses include​ the 2016 champion Villanova, Duke’s winning teams in 2015 and 2010, and the 2012 champ Kentucky. This year, the best balanced teams are Michigan State and Duke. ​  The conference has a reputation for falling short in the N.C.A.A. tournament, and a Big Ten team hasn’t won the title since Michigan State in 2000, a drought exceeded among power conferences only by the Pacific-12, which hasn’t won since 1997. But since 2000, 14 Big Ten teams have reached the Final Four, which puts the conference in a first-place tie with the A.C.C. in that category, and seven have played in the title game. It’s O.K. to have faith in Purdue, Michigan or the Spartans. Too many people anticipate the champion will be a team most people don’t expect. If you are competing in a big pool, it may be a sly strategy to pick a dark horse. But the ultimate winner is usually a pretty likely suspect. North Carolina was third on the selection committee’s overall ratings heading into last year’s tournament. Villanova was seventh the year before, when it won. Duke was third the year before that. Louisville (2013) and Kentucky (2012) were both the top-ranked teams the years they won it all.  That is what one famous T-shirt says, referring to the commonplace theory that Tom Izzo, Michigan State’s coach of 23 seasons, is a wizard of March, a leader who knows how to win tournament games. Izzo is a Hall of Fame coach, and the Spartans’ streak of 21 consecutive tournament appearances is the fifth-longest in history. But there is little evidence that Izzo particularly turns it on March.  Izzo won his only national title when Michigan State was the top overall seed. But Michigan State has exited in the first round five times, three times in an upset. The Spartans once reached the Final Four while playing the teams seeded 16th, 9th, 12th and 11th in their region. Another time, they did so against opponents seeded 12th, 4th, 9th and 6th. They also sustained one of the worst upsets in tournament history two years ago, when, as the highest-ranked No. 2 seed, they lost to 15th-seeded Middle Tennessee State in the first round. Even in three years when Izzo took higher-seeded teams to the Final Four — 2005, 2009 and 2015 — there is evidence they were mis-seeded. The 2005 squad, for instance, was a No. 5 seed even though it ended the season as the fifth-best team in KenPom.com’s advanced ratings. Izzo’s teams tend to advance far because they tend to be good at playing basketball, not because of what the calendar says. Except when she doesn’t. The upstarts provide the most lasting memories, but there just have not been many lately. We were perhaps spoiled by recent runs, by Virginia Commonwealth and Butler (twice) and George Mason. Last year featured a No. 11 seed in the Round of 8, but it was Xavier, a recognized Big East power. The two highest “underdog” seeds to advance far two years ago were the second-weekend mainstays Gonzaga and Syracuse. The last true Cinderella might have been No. 11-seeded Dayton, which made the last eight four years ago. For various reasons (the hardening of the one-and-done era, fewer at-large bids to mid-majors), the Age of the Cinderella may be waning.    Everyone knows the names Lehigh and Mercer, because everyone remembers them, as No. 15 and No. 14 seeds in 2012 and 2014, upsetting Duke in the first round. Now it seems as if everyone eagerly awaits another such defeat. Don’t hold your breath. Yes, Duke really lost those games (crazy, right?). But Duke is the most successful team in the current era of college basketball. The Blue Devils have made the tournament all but one year since 1985, a period in which they have been to 12 Final Fours (more than one third of them) and won 5 titles. They have had only two other first-round exits. So go ahead and hope for another Duke embarrassment. Just don’t count on one.  College football has an entrenched aristocracy that gobbles up all the national titles: the last time a team won it all for the first time was Florida, in 1996. By contrast, college basketball, with its freewheeling tournament, is much more open, right? Not really. Butler came close, twice, but the last time a basketball team won the tournament for the first time was 2006 (Florida again). Before that, it was Syracuse in 2003. Xavier and Gonzaga, a perennial contender, are still hunting their first titles. The favorites will be Duke, Michigan State, Villanova and North Carolina. The one exception is Virginia, which received the No. 1 overall seed, and has never won the title. Be careful there.