 Joel Embiid scored 23 points in his postseason debut, Marco Belinelli and Dario Saric each added 21, and the Philadelphia 76ers beat the host Miami Heat, 128-108, on Thursday night to take a two-games-to-one lead in their first-round Eastern Conference series. Ben Simmons finished with 19 points, 12 rebounds and 7 assists for the 76ers, who won for the 18th time in their last 19 games and reclaimed home-court advantage. Embiid went on a 7-0 run in the fourth quarter that helped Philadelphia extend its lead to 14 and sent many fans to the exits. Goran Dragic scored 23 points for the Heat, who got 19 from Justise Winslow and 14 from Josh Richardson. Game 4 is scheduled for Saturday afternoon in Miami. Embiid was announced as doubtful at the beginning of the day but was upgraded to probable in the afternoon and eventually cleared to start. He wore a mask and goggles to protect the surgically repaired orbital bone around his left eye, although his new accessory did not exactly seem up to the rigors of playoff basketball; it had to be swapped out at least twice. “It was annoying,” Embiid said of getting used to the mask. “But that was the only way I could play in this game, if I wore the mask and protected my face with goggles. I had to work through it and I did.” Embiid seemed right back in form. He banked in a turnaround straightaway jumper — a fortuitous bounce — to put the 76ers ahead by 9 late, then connected on a 3-pointer and added two free throws to start the spurt that put the game away for Philadelphia. Miami could not find any sort of stride. Hassan Whiteside was mired in foul trouble and ineffective, finishing the night all of 1 for 1 from the field for 5 points. Dwyane Wade, who Miami needed to be superb in a Game 2 victory in Philadelphia, shot 2 for 10. Wayne Ellington, Miami’s single-season leader in 3-pointers after making a record 227 this season, was 1 for 5 from the floor. The Heat won Game 2 by controlling the physical battle. Game 3 was another street fight, and Philadelphia did not back down. The Sixers won Game 1 by dominating the second half, and Game 3 went a similar way. They outscored Miami by 74-43 in the second half of Game 1, and by 65-44 in the second half on Thursday. “It’s clear that the first game and the third game were played on their terms,” Heat Coach Erik Spoelstra said. WARRIORS 110, SPURS 97 Kevin Durant had 26 points, nine rebounds and six assists, and the Golden State Warriors beat San Antonio by a score of 110-97 on Thursday night for a 3-0 series lead over the Spurs, who were still reeling from the death of Gregg Popovich’s wife, Erin. The Spurs had an emotional start, but could not sustain it against the talented Warriors. Already on the edge of their seats for the first home game of the playoffs, fans erupted when Rudy Gay threw down a one-handed dunk over Golden State’s JaVale McGee. The cheering was nearly constant as the Spurs scored the game’s first six points before the Warriors began to settle in. Durant and Klay Thompson shot down San Antonio’s chances, though there was concern in the fourth quarter about Durant having twisted his ankle, which forced him out of the game. Thompson had 19 points, including 3-for-6 shooting on 3s. Golden State closed the first half on a 20-9 run to eliminate a five-point deficit and take a 52-46 lead. Durant had 17 points in the first half to counter 10 points each from Gay and Parker. The Warriors have yet to announce the severity of Durant’s ankle injury. PELICANS 119, TRAIL BLAZERS 102 Nikola Mirotic scored a career playoff-best 30 points to go with eight rebounds, three steals and a block, and host New Orleans defeated Portland to take a commanding three-games-to-none lead in their Western Conference first-round series. Anthony Davis had 28 points, 11 rebounds, 3 steals and 2 blocks for the Pelicans, who can advance past the first round of the playoffs for the first time since 2008 with one more victory. Game 4 is scheduled for Saturday in New Orleans. The 6-foot-10 Mirotic — acquired in a midseason trade after DeMarcus Cousins’s season ended with a torn Achilles — made 12 of 15 shots, scoring on everything from quick-release 3-pointers to cutting dunks and fast-break layups. Damian Lillard scored 20 for the Trail Blazers, but he also missed 9 of 14 shots. C. J. McCollum scored 22 and Al-Farouq Aminu added 21, but Portland trailed by double digits for most of the first half and all of the second. The Blazers had no answer for a Pelicans offense orchestrated once again by guard Rajon Rondo, who had 16 points and 11 assists — giving him 37 assists in the series. Jrue Holiday added 16 points for New Orleans, which shot 53 percent (46 of 87). The volume was high early in the arena with the crowd revved up for the first playoff game in New Orleans since 2015 — and eager to see if the Pelicans could push Portland to the brink of elimination. The Trail Blazers did nothing to silence the place, shooting about 35 percent and committing six turnovers in the opening quarter. New Orleans raced to an 18-point lead in the period, thanks in part to Mirotic making five of his first seven shots for 14 early points. Mirotic had 21 by halftime, giving him a playoff career high with 24 minutes still to play. He hit three of his first four 3-point attempts and triumphantly raised his fist to the exuberant crowd after one of his long-range rainbows went through. Rondo ran New Orleans’ offense with a tempo that gave Portland fits, and even when he was forced to settle for a deep 3 late in the shot clock, it went down, pushing the Pelicans’ lead to 20 in the first half. Portland never got closer than 13 after that and trailed by as many as 33 in the fourth quarter.