 PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — The International Olympic Committee has upheld its suspension of Russia as a team from the Games, a move that will force the country’s athletes to march in the closing ceremony without their national colors or flag. The decision, in a unanimous vote here Sunday, came after two failed drug tests by Russian athletes — among nearly 170 competing here under a special dispensation — and after a long night of talks among senior I.O.C. officials. Russia’s Olympic committee was banned in December after revelations of one of the most sophisticated doping programs in sports history, including an elaborate scheme at the 2014 Sochi Games in Russia. The I.O.C. will consider reinstating the Russian committee if all remaining drug tests for its athletes at the Pyeongchang Games come back clean. Nicole Hoevertsz, the leader of the I.O.C.’s panel reviewing Russia’s compliance, said Russia could be reinstated within the next week. The I.O.C. decision came after protracted discussion over two days. “We should draw a line, we have to draw a line and look to the future,” Hoevertsz said. Russia’s final doping test results are anticipated within 72 hours, and if they are clean, the country will be restored to the I.O.C. in early March, Hoevertsz said. With the vote, the I.O.C.’s membership rubber-stamped a recommendation from its executive board. That group failed to reach common ground at a meeting on Saturday. The Bach-led executive board asked the review panel to change a part of its report late Saturday. The report was changed to make clear the two failed drugs tests were not part of a systematic doping scheme involving the Russian Olympic Committee. Two investigations revealed that Russia’s doping program had tainted scores of athletes and multiple sporting events across several years. Many of Russia’s top athletes were linked to the scandal and barred from the Games. Alina Zagitova, a 15-year-old figure skater, was the only Russian to have won a gold medal in Pyeongchang by the time the committee voted. The men’s hockey team won a second gold on Sunday, defeating Germany. The Russians will now leave the Olympics the way they entered: in neutral uniforms that provided a constant reminder of the damage done to Russia’s sporting reputation by the scheme, a state-controlled effort to replace drug-tainted urine samples with clean ones, according to the investigations. President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and other top sports officials from the country have denied that the doping program reached the highest levels of their government. The effects of the scandal have disrupted the last two Games, shifting attention from athletics to litigation. Before the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, where Russia participated as a nation while some of its athletes were banned because of the scandal, the country tried to use the sports courts to increase its number of participants. It made a similar effort in the final days leading up to these Winter Olympics. Both attempts were unsuccessful. A Russian delegation that included Evgenia Medvedeva, the silver medalist in women’s figure skating, made a presentation to the executive board. The bobsledder Nadezhda Sergeeva’s positive drug test the day before did not help Russia’s cause. She was the second Russian to fail a drug test here. When the I.O.C. banned Russia on Dec. 5, the organization said a condition of the country’s reinstatement would be a commitment to global antidoping regulations. Russia was also required to pay a $15 million fine. “This is not a decision everyone will be happy with,” Hoevertsz said after Sunday’s vote. “We will be criticized.” The decision to potentially reinstate Russia met skepticism on Sunday, with critics pointing to retests of doping samples conducted years after the 2008 and 2012 Summer Olympics. In those tests, Russian athletes had the most confirmed cases at both Games, according to the I.O.C.’s own statistics (18 out of 65 from Beijing 2008; 21 out of 49 from London 2012) “If the retests shows the result then the I.O.C will take the appropriate measures,” Bach said at a news conference Sunday afternoon, without elaborating. Richard Pound, the I.O.C.’s longest-serving member, skipped the meeting in protest of what he considered to be lenient treatment of Russia. Adam Pengilly, a British member who also has been critical of the I.O.C.’s reaction to the Russia scandal, was sent home from the Games after an altercation with a security guard. After being warned that their conduct would affect the I.O.C.’s decision, Russian athletes have largely been keeping a low profile in South Korea. They have generally stayed off social media and refrained from making critical comments or displaying nationalistic symbols. The two failed drugs tests were not part of a systematic doping scheme, the panel said. Russia’s I.O.C. member, Shamil Tarpischev, said “a lack of cultural education” was to blame. Russia will be welcomed back as a full-fledged Olympic nation if all of its remaining drugs tests from the Pyeongchang Games are negative. Then the I.O.C. can try to move on from one of the biggest scandals in Olympics history. Athletes from around the world have been among the most critical voices opposing Russia’s return. On Saturday, American biathletes joined others to say they wouldn’t participate in a season-ending event in Russia. “We believe this should be the end of this big problem and pave the way for a new chapter in Olympic sport,” Tarpischev said.