 LOS ANGELES — Last Sunday, Terance Mann woke up with no expectation of playing that day. His Florida State team was set to facing Xavier, the top seed in the West Region of the N.C.A.A. tournament, and the Seminoles’s chances looked slim without Mann, who had a groin injury. His team’s most indispensable player, Mann ended up coming off the bench to contribute 24 minutes in the huge upset. His recovery process appeared complete Thursday as Mann soared for four dunks among his 18 points while pacing the Seminoles (23-11) to their third consecutive upset, this one 75-60. The latest victim was No. 4 Gonzaga (32-5), whose 16-game victory streak had come by way of a dominant 13.5-point average margin of victory. Next up for ninth-seeded Florida State: No. 3 Michigan, with a trip to the Final Four on the line. A quarter-century has passed since Florida State’s last game in the round of 8. But with a large, athletic rotation that includes two seven-footers and a three-pronged attack, the term “upset” may no longer apply. On Thursday, Gonzaga’s prospects soured before the opening tip. Killian Tillie, the team’s second-leading scorer and rebounder, was scratched with a hip injury that was believed to have flared up in warm-ups. Though his absence compromised the Bulldogs’ depth, the drop-off to his replacement, Rui Hachimura, was negligible. Spectacular in last Saturday’s trouncing of Ohio State, Hachimura, a sophomore who took up basketball at age 13, could become the second native of Japan to play in the N.B.A. (Yuta Tabuse, the first, logged all of four minutes with Phoenix.) Hachimura, in his second start, accounted for 5 consecutive — and timely — points, interrupting an 11-0 run that had vaulted Florida State ahead by 16-6. But few teams in the tournament are deeper than F.S.U., which mixes and matches 10 players. Eight of those 10 scored within the first nine minutes as the Seminoles built their lead back to 23-11. Then, continuing a half of dramatic scoring swings, the Zags strung together 15 points in a row. The Seminoles’ depth — the second unit proudly calls itself the Boom Squad — came in handy. The team committed 15 fouls in the first half yet rang up the last 11 points for a 41-32 lead, attributable largely to a 5-1 edge on 3-pointers. The gap swelled to 13 early in the second half as the plot unfolded differently than it had against Xavier, in which the Seminoles erased a 12-point deficit after halftime. Mann’s fourth slam, which came with just over 5 minutes remaining, was followed by a Gonzaga 3-pointer that shrunk the gap to 5, the smallest since the opening half. From there, F.S.U. shredded the Zags’ press and finished on a roll. Afterward, Mann declared himself fully fit and did not seem impressed by his accumulation of dunks. “I’m sure I’ve had more in a game before,” he said. His coach, Leonard Hamilton, credited the team’s medical staff with Mann’s preparation. “We were going to hold him out if necessary,” Hamilton said. “The treatment he got obviously promoted the healing process.” F.S.U. promotes its depth with T-shirts that say “18 strong,” a reference to the number of players on the roster. In a reflection of that depth, no player besides Mann reached double figures in scoring, but five ranged between 7 and 9 points. Hachimura, playing a bigger role on short notice, finished the game with 16 points and nine rebounds. But it was not enough as his fellow starters missed 30 of 43 field-goal tries, and saw their tournament run come to an end.