 LIVERPOOL, England — Of all the teams Mohamed Salah has claimed as his victims this season, of all the defenses Liverpool’s irrepressible striker has shredded, A.S. Roma had a head start. After all, Salah spent two years in the Italian capital before moving to England. He trained alongside Roma’s defenders every day, played alongside them every week. When they came face to face with Salah in the first leg of a Champions League semifinal at Anfield on Tuesday night, they would know all of his tics and his tells, his flaws and his foibles. Salah has scored 41 goals in his first season at Liverpool, a ruthlessness that will surely make him the Premier League’s leading scorer this season, just as it persuaded his peers to vote him England’s player of the year. But Roma, more than anyone, would know how to contain him. Familiarity would breed confidence. Knowledge would bring power. Except, with Salah, it does not work like that. No matter how forewarned a team might be, there is no such thing as forearmed. Salah scored two and created two as Liverpool seared into a 5-0 lead; that Roma recovered to end the game only 5-2 down does not diminish his impact. A few months ago, Ian Wright, the former Arsenal striker, said something that bordered on heresy. He was assessing Salah’s influence on Liverpool, not long after the Egyptian had scored twice in a Premier League game against Leicester City. Something about his low center of gravity, Wright said, the way he controls the ball, the way he seems to cast it under his spell, reminded him of Lionel Messi. Wright was, of course, immediately pilloried. Drawing a comparison between Messi — or Cristiano Ronaldo, for that matter — and any player is rightly taboo; such is the status of those two, that they do not measure themselves against their peers, but against only the greats of the past. With a quiet insistence, though, more and more professional observers have followed Wright’s lead in recent weeks. Not to say that Salah is the equal of Messi — far from it — or that he has achieved, or might yet achieve, as much. It’s just that, in a certain light, at certain points, it is possible to glimpse in Salah a little of Messi’s afterglow. Even as the idea has gained credence, it still seems fanciful. And yet, every three days or so, Salah does something to give the idea weight. Ordinarily, it is a goal, one of those mesmerizing dribbles that have long since been Messi’s hallmark. Against Roma, though, it was something else, something more significant. Great players win games — not single-handedly, but through sheer force fo personality. They bend and they shape contests to their will. Nobody does it better than Messi and Ronaldo. Against his old friends from Rome, though, Salah came close. It was not just that he scored twice, setting Liverpool on the way to a five-goal lead that, not too long after he left the field, was reduced to a three-goal advantage. Nor is it just that he scored twice so beautifully, with the sort of aristry we associate with Messi: one precision strike from the edge of the penalty area, fizzing past Alisson, Roma’s goalkeeper; one delicate chip — a dink, really, there is no other word for it — after exchanging quick-fire passes with Roberto Firmino. Nor is it that, after halftime, he created two more: the first a simple finish for Sadio Mané, the second an identical chance for Firmino, as Liverpool ran riot, and a victory, for a while, morphed into a rout. It was, instead, the way he towered over the occasion, the dominant figure on the field even when he was nowhere near the ball. Jürgen Klopp’s team had a scree of superb performances in those first 80 minutes, as Roma teetered and crumbled: Jordan Henderson and Georginio Wijnaldum seemingly ubiquitous in midfield, fulfilling that old Pep Guardiola dictum of “I get the ball, I play the ball, I get the ball, I play the ball”; Firmino himself, scorer of not just Liverpool’s fourth but its fifth, too, a simple header from a corner, buzzing around Roma’s bedraggled defenders; Trent Alexander-Arnold and Andy Robertson, wrapping Liverpool’s team in a bundle of pure energy. But Salah stood out nevertheless, a magnet not just for the ball but for the eye, too, impossible to ignore, a danger even as he stood still, tucking his hands into his long-sleeve jersey on the sort of filthy night that England’s northwest considers its specialty. He did what Messi and Ronaldo have always done: He made this his game, his Champions League semifinal. He, more than anyone else, put Liverpool on a path to its eighth European Cup final, in Kiev on May 26. On the most exalted of stages, under the brightest of lights, he shone. Roma could not rest as long as he was there, this player they would recognize but who remained a mystery. He was admired in Italy, during his two seasons there; the club parted with him only begrudgingly. James Pallotta, Roma’s owner, has said he had “zero choice” but to sell him. Monchi, Roma’s sporting director, has made it clear the deal had been agreed to before he took the job. Still: They knew he was quick, and they knew he was creative, and they knew he could be more. But this much more, a striker of such deadliness — and here is that comparison again — scoring at the sort of rate many had assumed was exclusively for Messi and Ronaldo? Capable of scoring 43 goals in 47 games? No wonder all of that prior warning counted for nothing. This is not the Salah that Roma remembers. This Salah is something else, something more. That is not to say that Roma is without hope for the return game, in the Italian capital next Wednesday. “Anyone who does not believe in the comeback might as well stay at home, fans or players,” Roma’s coach, Eusebio Di Francesco, said after the game. There is reason to believe. Liverpool, ahead by 5-0 at the 80-minute mark, was through; five minutes later, it had conceded twice — through an Edin Dzeko effort and a penalty, conceded by James Milner and converted by Diego Perotti — and Anfield, previously almost delirious, seemed anxious, fretful. Liverpool could, perhaps should, have scored more than five, a profligacy that may prove haunting. And Roma, of course, has done this before. In the quarterfinals, it recovered from 4-1 down after the first leg to beat Barcelona, 3-0, and advance in front of a baying Stadio Olimpico. Messi himself was not enough to save a team that even Klopp happily admits is Liverpool’s superior. Klopp does not have Messi to call on next week. He only has Salah; he only has the imitation. If Roma can stop him, there is a chance. That, though, is quite a big if.