 EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — The Giants opened their first organized team activities under their new coach, Pat Shurmur, on Monday with the star receiver Odell Beckham Jr. present. On a conference call, Shurmur said he had not talked to Beckham, who has been the subject of trade speculation. Shurmur said he did not know how many of the voluntary activities Beckham planned to attend or the condition of Beckham’s left ankle, which was broken in the fifth game last season. He said he expected to know more about the ankle by the end of the week. Shurmur said he had previously spoken with Beckham about a video that surfaced online showing Beckham on a bed, holding what appeared to be a hand-rolled cigarette. A woman next to him had unidentified white powder on a nearby table. Shurmur would not say what he had said to Beckham. He also said he was not worried about whether Beckham, 25, who wants to be the N.F.L.’s highest paid player, would be affected by the attention surrounding the video and the trade rumors. “I really believe that Odell is a professional and he wants to be great,” Shurmur said. “He understands the importance of the off-season, and he’s a competitive guy, and again, we had already started communicating before all that information kind of got out there and was talked about a great deal. He’s a professional, and I’m glad he’s here today.” When healthy, Beckham is a game-breaker. A three-time Pro Bowler, he has played in 47 games in his first four seasons, catching 313 passes for 4,424 yards and 38 touchdowns. He has averaged 94.1 yards. However, he can be a distraction when his emotions get the best of him on the field and when he does foolish things off the field, such as taking a trip to Florida in the week leading up to a playoff game after the 2016 regular season. Quarterback Eli Manning said he thought it was important for everyone to attend the team activities because a new offense was being installed. He said he had not talked to Beckham after the trade rumors surfaced or after the video appeared on the internet. He declined to offer any advice. “Odell, he’s got to do what is best for him in getting ready to play this upcoming season,” Manning said. “I’ll talk to him and give my two cents on everything, but he’s got to do what he feels is best for him to get ready and play at a high level.” While Beckham’s situation dominated the 15-minute conference call, Shurmur made it clear that the team activities would lay the groundwork for the coming season. “For the most part, we’re trying to get things started, take advantage of the extra time we have, and we want to grow away from basically what happened a year ago, the 3-13 season,” Shurmur said. Shurmur said he planned to make changes in the way the Giants do things. “I just think it’s very important that we’re very professional, we communicate well together, and then there is going to be a transfer of information,” he said. “I think we as coaches need to listen to the players, but also teach what we want them to know and then let them tell us what they’re seeing so that we know how we have to teach it further.” The Giants said that offensive lineman Brett Jones, who started the final 12 games at center and 13 over all, had signed his contract tender, worth about $3 million, for next season. They also signed tight end Ryan O’Malley, who played in one game last season.