 The Giants, who missed the playoffs this year for the fifth time in six seasons and lost 13 games for the first time in the team’s 92-year history, completed the second major step in a sweeping overhaul on Monday by naming Pat Shurmur as the franchise’s new head coach. Last month, Dave Gettleman was named the team’s new general manager. Gettleman recently held the same position with the Carolina Panthers. Shurmur, who comes to the Giants from the Minnesota Vikings, where he thrived as an offensive coordinator, will be charged with resurrecting a roster short on depth. He will also have to mend a fractious locker room frayed by dissension and hobbled by a dearth of veteran leadership. His predecessor, Ben McAdoo, was celebrated as a breath of fresh air when he led the Giants to an 11-5 record and a playoff berth in 2016, but he was unceremoniously discarded this season after the Giants won only two of their first 12 games. Like McAdoo, Shurmur is known for his ability to develop quarterbacks. He inherits 37-year-old quarterback Eli Manning, who elevated his play under McAdoo for a period before experiencing a precipitous decline — along with the rest of the team — this season. Backing up Manning is Davis Webb, whom the Giants selected in the third round of last April’s N.F.L. draft. The Giants also possess the second overall selection of the coming N.F.L. draft, and it seems likely that the team will use that pick on another quarterback, one that Shurmur would presumably be asked to develop into Manning’s successor. Shurmur’s hiring was an open secret for the last week but the Giants had to wait to announce the move until the Vikings’ season ended — which happened on Sunday with a loss  to the Philadelphia Eagles in the N.F.C. championship. By Monday morning, the Giants were maneuvering to bring Shurmur, 52, to their headquarters in New Jersey to sign a contract and to introduce him to the New York-area news media. The terms of the deal were agreed upon, but a winter storm in the Midwest prevented Shurmur from making the trip eastward. He will instead head to Alabama to attend the Senior Bowl, and he is scheduled to appear at a news conference Friday at the Giants’ training complex. The Giants will continue to pay McAdoo for the two remaining years on his contract. In a statement issued by the team Monday, the Giants owners John Mara and Steve Tisch said of Shurmur: “He has an outstanding track record in developing young players, and it is clear his players respond to his guidance and direction.” Added Gettleman: “I have followed Pat’s career for many years, and he has had great success wherever he has been. What struck me during our conversation is that being the head coach of the New York Giants is not too big for him. He is made for this moment and this opportunity.” Shurmur, a native of Dearborn Heights, Mich., has been an N.F.L. coach for 19 seasons including two years as the head coach of the Cleveland Browns in 2011-12, when the Browns won just nine of 32 games. In addition to helping guide the Vikings offense to the 10th-most points scored in the N.F.L. this season, Shurmur spent 10 years as an assistant for the Eagles, where he coached the tight ends, offensive line and quarterbacks. In 2009, he began a two-year stint as the offensive coordinator for the St. Louis Rams. Shurmur was one of six candidates to interview for the Giants’ head coaching vacancy. The other candidates were Panthers defensive coordinator Steve Wilks, former Denver assistant coach Eric Studesville, Steve Spagnuolo, who was the Giants’ defensive coordinator and interim head coach last season, and two assistants from the New England Patriots: Matt Patricia, the team’s defensive coordinator, and Josh McDaniels, the offensive coordinator.