 TIME AND TV 6:09 p.m. Eastern, TBS WHAT TO EXPECT These teams known for their offense should probably be known for their defense. Fans have long adored Coach John Beilein’s Wolverines teams for their gorgeous sets in which the ball travels from player to player with speed and grace. They have been similarly taken by the offense of the Final Four’s most improbable contestant, Loyola-Chicago, the Missouri Valley Conference tournament champion. The Ramblers’ starting five players are generally capable of shooting from any spot on the floor. But the calling card of both teams is really the defense. No wonder one Loyola-Chicago assistant coach said Michigan’s field-goal percentage would be crucial in determining the game’s outcome. Outsiders might think that Loyola-Chicago, with its No. 11 seed, is playing with house money, or that it might not expect to defeat the third-seeded Wolverines, who won the Big Ten tournament title. They should know that is not how the Ramblers see it. “It obviously keeps the chip on our shoulder as throughout the whole process we have been the underdog every single game,” said Clayton Custer, a redshirt junior who transferred from Iowa State. But, Custer said: “We don’t think of ourselves as that much of a Cinderella because we have had such a good year this year. We have been winning games all year, so we think we belong on this stage.” TIME AND TV 8:49 p.m., TBS WHAT TO EXPECT A lot of scoring. Villanova is six 3-pointers from tying the N.C.A.A. single-season record set by Virginia Military Institute in 2007 (442), while Kansas has also broken its program record for 3-pointers made this season — by nearly 70. The spread-the-floor style of both teams should not be surprising; Kansas Coach Bill Self said he adopted Villanova’s small-ball philosophy years ago, when the Wildcats were winning with four guards on the floor. This time, it’s Kansas that starts four guards around a strong rim protector (Udoka Azubuike). The Jayhawks will rely on Azubuike (if he can stay out of foul trouble) to limit the Wildcats’ ability to penetrate and find shooters around the perimeter. Villanova has yet to face a tight game down the stretch since it beat Providence in overtime in the Big East tournament championship game. The Wildcats have won each of their four games in the N.C.A.A. tournament by double digits, and it has been their defense that is quietly dominating, holding opponents to 39.4 percent shooting in the last nine games. But Villanova has not faced a backcourt as talented as Kansas’ Devonte’ Graham and Malik Newman. The latter scored 32 points in the team’s round-of-8 win over No. 2-seeded Duke and might be the hottest shooter left in the tournament. Kansas also has some mojo in this building: It won its only national title under Self in the Alamodome in 2008.