 A year from now, perhaps, Matt Harvey will be back in a rotation somewhere, a buy-low prayer for a small-market outpost. Maybe by then he will have accepted the need to reinvent himself, to pitch with the savvy of a veteran who understands his youthful lightning will never return. Harvey might have his chance much sooner than that, after Jacob deGrom left Wednesday’s start after four innings. DeGrom, the Mets’ best starter this season, hyperextended his right elbow on a swing in the third inning of a 7-0 loss to the Atlanta Braves. Manager Mickey Callaway named Harvey as a possible replacement for deGrom, if needed, though he mentioned the minor leaguer Corey Oswalt first. In any case, the Mets do not have an option as appealing as the newcomer the ascending Braves showed off on Tuesday: Mike Soroka, 20, the youngest pitcher in the majors and a centerpiece of the Braves’ promising future. Soroka worked six sharp innings, and from his spot in the bullpen, Harvey might have remembered when he was like that: pumping strikes, confidently and consistently on the attack, expecting only the best. “He’s an incredible pitcher, and I’m not surprised at all, to be honest, about the performance he put out there,” said Braves left fielder Ronald Acuna Jr., through an interpreter. “That’s who he is. I’ve been fortunate enough to watch him do that plenty of times. You just come to expect it.” Acuna is also 20 and the only player in the majors younger than Soroka. His twisting, back-tracking catch ended Tuesday’s win, making Soroka the first 20-year-old starter to win his major league debut since Scott Kazmir for Tampa Bay in 2004. The Mets had traded Kazmir, of course, but they did not trade Harvey. They drafted him with their first pick in 2010, seventh overall, the prize for a dreary debut season at Citi Field the year before. They called up Harvey in July 2012, and less than a year later, he started the All-Star Game in Flushing. He was The Man and acted the part, with the Dark Knight persona, the photo spread in ESPN’s Body Issue (wearing only a baseball glove) and the hearty appetite for the New York nightlife. The Hollywood scene, we learned from Page Six, also appeals to Harvey. The New York Post reported that Harvey attended the opening of a restaurant in Beverly Hills last Thursday night, squeezing in a party between that afternoon’s game in St. Louis and the next night’s game in San Diego. Harvey gave up a home run in the San Diego game, his third appearance since the Mets removed him from the rotation. The Mets beat the Padres that night, 5-1, and Harvey pitched another inning on Sunday, without allowing a run. “He walked me through the circumstances; it wasn’t a big deal, it definitely didn’t interfere with the way he was going to pitch the next day,” Callaway said on Tuesday. “If he struggles — I thought he had a decent outing; he gave up a solo homer, but everybody gives up one of those — it’s because he’s inexperienced in the bullpen in trying to get loose.” Callaway is new to the Mets, so he did not have to deal with a more egregious version of this story last spring. That was when Harvey stayed out too late in Manhattan on Cinco de Mayo, a Friday, golfed the next morning and never showed up to the ballpark for Saturday night’s game. The Mets suspended him and essentially forfeited their Sunday game, summoning an overmatched replacement, Adam Wilk, to New York on an overnight flight from Las Vegas. The predictable loss went on Wilk’s record, but it should have been charged to Harvey. Even so, Harvey’s statistics since the start of the 2016 season have been unsightly enough: a 9-19 record with a 5.78 earned run average in 210 1/3 innings. In fairness, Harvey threw more innings than that in 2015 alone, including the postseason, when he worked into the ninth inning of the last World Series game, risking his health in his first full season after Tommy John surgery to try to lift the Mets to a title. Making such a sacrifice for the good of the team should have bought Harvey eternal goodwill around Flushing. But Harvey has squandered it, and the new regime of Callaway and the no-nonsense pitching coach, Dave Eiland, have no investment in his past. In the best-case scenario, Harvey could be like Carlos Carrasco or Danny Duffy, starters who made a temporary move to the bullpen under Callaway (in Cleveland) and Eiland (in Kansas City), and emerged better for it. But Harvey resisted the move initially, brooding about the decision and snapping at reporters for asking about his first relief appearance. On Tuesday — before deGrom’s injury — General Manager Sandy Alderson had said that Harvey’s “only way back to the rotation is through the bullpen,” and succeeding in that role. He insisted Harvey knew what he had to do. “There’s more of a meeting of the minds today than there was a week ago,” Alderson added. Harvey has pitched only once in relief at Citi Field, late last September when the Mets were 20 games under .500. He was still a starter then, basically, working four innings after Noah Syndergaard had pitched the first, two pitching pillars salvaging something from a lost season. Syndergaard has been strong again this year. Harvey has not. That is understandable; he had thoracic outlet syndrome in 2016 and shoulder trouble last year, and cannot be expected to recapture all of his past glory. But Harvey’s pitch usage is more puzzling. At his best, in 2013 and 2015, Harvey used his fastball and slider 75 percent of the time. Now he uses them even more — nearly 87 percent of the time — despite the fact that both are slower than ever. We still don’t really know how Harvey will do as a reliever; he has pitched three times from the bullpen, allowing two runs in four innings. After the game in San Diego last Friday, before the Page Six revelation, he pledged to reporters, “It’s a learning process and I’m just trying to do everything I can.” Fair enough, but Harvey’s words have been empty before. Attending an event in Beverly Hills, between games in different cities, is obviously no crime. If Harvey were still a star, nobody would care about it. But he is 29 years old, with six years in the majors, and the Mets shouldn’t have to wonder about his priorities anymore. “It can be a problem,” Alderson said, referring to incidents like last week’s. “I don’t think it was in this case. But the other thing is, Matt has to understand that people always notice what he does.” Alderson said Harvey would probably learn from this, but that is also what the Mets hoped last May, after the suspension — and here they are again. Someone asked Alderson if he was upset by the Page Six report. His wry response was telling. “Usually I get upset if a report is unexpected,” Alderson said. “So, I guess the short answer is no.”