 PRAGUE — Top officials for the International Olympic Committee are considering a menu of possible penalties against Russia for doping violations, including barring the country’s national anthem at the coming Winter Olympics and keeping its delegation of athletes out of the opening ceremony, according to several people with knowledge of the deliberations. With less than 100 days to go before the Games begin in Pyeongchang, South Korea, Olympic officials are under intense pressure to announce their decision on how Russia will be punished for corrupting several Olympics — most notably the 2014 Sochi Games — with an elaborate, state-supported doping scheme. It is unclear which, if any, option the I.O.C. leadership favors at this point. It is possible that any punishment will be far less severe. Dr. Grigory Rodchenkov — Russia’s former antidoping lab chief now living in the United States — described widespread, systematic doping in a tell-all account that prompted the World Anti-Doping Agency to commission an investigation. The investigation, led by the Canadian lawyer Richard McLaren, determined that Russia’s cheating schemes implicated about 1,000 athletes across 30 sports who competed in global competitions from 2011 to 2015. Dr. Rodchenkov said the cheating was most flagrant at the last Winter Games, in 2014 in Sochi, Russia. The host country swept the standings, winning 33 medals — 13 of them gold. Now the I.O.C. and Russian officials are engaged in a doping stare-down. Many athletes, antidoping officials and Olympic officials from some countries are urging Thomas Bach, president of the I.O.C., to issue severe penalties. The top Olympic officials are also considering the option of having Russian athletes compete under a neutral flag at the Pyeongchang Games or wear neutral uniforms, according to the people familiar with the case. They requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly. The I.O.C. is unlikely to impose a total ban on Russia, an Olympic heavyweight, though it could issue a significant financial penalty, expel athletes and officials found to have been part of the doping scheme and remove any mention of Russia from the field of play, according to the people. Russian officials have threatened to pull their athletes out of the Pyeongchang Games altogether if the sanctions are too harsh. A decision is expected to be made on Dec. 5, when the I.O.C.’s executive board meets. Before then the officials will receive the results of a much-delayed study by the former Swiss president Samuel Schmid into Mr. McLaren’s report, which linked several state organs, including the intelligence agency FSB, to the doping conspiracy. A group of 17 national antidoping agencies published a letter in September demanding that Russia be excluded from the Pyeongchang Games. “The failure to expeditiously investigate individual Russian athlete doping poses a clear and present danger for clean athletes worldwide and at the 2018 Winter Games,” said the letter, whose signatories included the United States and British antidoping agencies. Russia is expected to react with fury, and even withdraw its team from the Winter Games, if the I.O.C. issues a severe punishment. The Pyeongchang Olympics are scheduled to take place about six weeks before President Vladimir V. Putin stands for re-election. “The position is unequivocal for all — Russians will not compete under the neutral flag at the Olympic Games,” Alexander Zhukov, the president of Russia’s Olympic committee, said in comments published on the Russian website R-Sport. “They will speak for their country. This option is not even being considered.” The late rush to settle on a punishment is a repeat of events ahead of the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. Then, in the wake of Dr. Rodchenkov’s revelations, the I.O.C. ordered individual sports federations to determine the eligibility of Russian athletes for those Games. Some, like cycling, rowing, and track and field, adopted blanket bans, while others admitted athletes who could prove they were clean. Last week at a meeting of the 205 eligible Olympic nations and territories, Mr. Bach said that any manipulation of samples at Sochi would constitute a “direct attack on the integrity of the Olympic Games and on the I.O.C.” But since the start of the crisis he has emphasized his opposition to “collective punishment,” preferring that each athlete have a chance to establish his innocence. Mr. Bach has forcefully pushed back at calls for the I.O.C. to act more swiftly against Russia. He has said that punishments cannot be determined before the I.O.C.’s inquiries have been completed. The I.O.C. also commissioned an investigation by the head of its disciplinary commission, Denis Oswald, into possible doping violations by individual athletes at the Sochi, London and Beijing Games. “In the Olympic movement, everybody — when we say everybody, it is everybody — everybody enjoys the same rights and obligations, and everyone enjoys the right to a fair and due procedure,” Mr. Bach said. “I call all of you to respect this fair procedure for all our colleagues, because we always think how you would react if you were accused of some wrongdoings and what you would expect from your colleagues.” No winter sports federation has publicly supported a total ban of Russian athletes at the Pyeongchang Games. Last week the I.O.C. penalized the first two athletes following Oswald’s investigation. The Russian cross-country skiers Alexander Legkov and Evgeniy Belov were barred for life for doping violations at the Sochi Games. Dr. Rodchenkov said Russia tampered with urine samples that would have failed drug tests in Sochi. Mr. Oswald’s commission has taken longer than first anticipated to reach verdicts after it struggled to come up with a suitable method of detecting whether bottles — previously considered tamper-proof — had been manipulated. Mr. McLaren’s report captured the scale and audaciousness of Russia’s doping program, using forensic analysis to corroborate the testimony of Dr. Rodchenkov. The report said the drug tests of about 1,000 athletes — across several Olympics — were corrupted, but acknowledged that proving wrongdoing for individual cases would be difficult given Russia’s lack of cooperation in providing lab data and its history of destroying tainted urine samples that would be plainly incriminating. The World Anti-Doping Agency has cleared 95 of the first 96 athletes whose cases of doping in competitions have been reviewed. The agency in 2015 declared Russia noncompliant with global sports’ accepted antidoping code. Among several requirements for regaining compliance, the agency said, Russian antidoping authorities must publicly accept the findings in Mr. McLaren’s report and the Russian government must provide access to the stored urine samples in the Moscow laboratory. Russia has not fulfilled either of those demands yet. Russian officials have cited a continuing FSB investigation for refusing WADA access to lab samples and data. World Anti-Doping Agency leaders will meet on Nov. 16 to decide whether Russia should once again be considered compliant. Noncompliance could lead the I.O.C. to issue sterner punishments.