 PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — On Friday, the short program in men’s Olympic figure skating answered two urgent questions about recovery — one from a recent case of nerves, the other from an extended absence because of injury. Nathan Chen, the 18-year-old from the United States who was considered a favorite for the gold medal, appeared overwhelmed by the moment, just as he had a week ago in the team competition. But Yuzuru Hanyu, 23, the defending Olympic champion from Japan, competing for the first time in nearly four months because of an ankle injury, skated a performance of great technical skill, languid beauty and strategic cleverness. Hanyu won the short program with 111.68 points, 10 points higher than he scored at the 2014 Winter Games. In Saturday’s free skate, he will attempt to become the first man to repeat as Olympic champion since Dick Button of the United States in 1948 and 1952. “I felt pressure, but the pressure is energy for me, so I didn’t feel, like, nervous and shaking,” Hanyu said. His training partner, Javier Fernandez, 26, of Spain, finished second in the short program with 107.58 points, while Shoma Uno, 20, of Japan, was third with 104.17 points. Chen fell to 17th place with 82.27 points, behind the other two Americans, Adam Rippon (7th) and Vincent Zhou (12th). Chen appeared confident during his warm-up; he entered the competition as the only undefeated skater on the international circuit this season. Twice he had defeated Hanyu in the past 12 months, once in the same arena in which Olympic skating is taking place. But Chen, who has been the most accomplished performer of quadruple jumps in the field, fell on his opening quad lutz on Friday, stumbled out of a triple axel and did not complete two jumps in combination, which is required. Afterward, he appeared stunned and had little to say. “It just was rough; nothing really clicked together,” Chen said. “I did all the right stuff going into it. It should have been different, but stuff happens.” Hanyu performed first among the final group of skaters, from which all the top finishers came, and Chen immediately followed. He said he did not feel any pressure beyond the usual nervous energy, but Chen’s technique and assurance quickly left him. “I’ve skated after him before and skated well,” Chen said of Hanyu. “Obviously that didn’t happen here, but I don’t think that was really too much of a role.” With five quadruple jumps scheduled in his long program, Chen could move up a number of places Saturday, but the medal podium appears far out of reach without meltdowns from the leaders. He has been out of sorts for both routines at these Games. A week ago, in his short program in the team competition, Chen fell on a triple axel and completed only two revolutions on a planned four-revolution jump. He said he was thinking too much instead of just skating. Still wearing his costume, he immediately went downstairs to the training rink and rehearsed his jumps. But things only got worse in the singles competition. Asked how he would plan for Saturday’s skate, Chen seemed at a loss. “I’ve never been in this position before, so I don’t know exactly what to do,” he said. Hanyu had not competed since late October. He sustained ligament damage in his right ankle on Nov. 9 while rehearsing a quad lutz before a competition in Japan. It is the most difficult of the four-revolution jumps being performed. He missed about two months of training on the ice; in the meantime, he rehearsed his jumps on the floor at his training center in Toronto. He has only been practicing his triple axels for about three weeks and his quad jumps for two weeks. But his coach, Brian Orser, a two-time Olympic silver medalist for Canada in the 1980s, cautioned reporters not to underestimate Hanyu’s talent and resolve. Hanyu has said that he does not want to simply be a champion skater, he wants to be a great skater. “I know many people have been waiting for me to skate, and I want to the show them the performance that makes them feel it was worth the wait,” Hanyu said at a news conference the other day. He added: “This is my dream stage, and I want to give my dream performance.” He did on Friday, performing exquisitely with two quadruple jumps and a triple axel, flexible spins and intricate footwork. He received a 10 percent bonus for the axel and a quad toe-triple toe combination jump, which were done in the second half of his routine, when skaters’ legs begin to tire. The only thing missing for Hanyu at rinkside was his trademark Winnie the Pooh doll, which serves as a tissue box and a totem of good luck with its smiling, uncritical gaze. The Disney character, created by A.A. Milne, would be a violation of Olympic branding and sponsorship rules. But Hanyu did pat a Pooh doll on the head in his room for good fortune before the competition. (“I’m sure he was cheering for me,” he said.) And a handful of fans wore Winnie the Pooh costumes in the stands during the short program. As usual, a hail of Pooh dolls rained onto the ice after Hanyu performed. (They are collected and donated to charities.) But this competition is far from finished. To win another gold medal, and to stake his claim as perhaps the greatest skater of all time, Hanyu must still demonstrate that he has the stamina and a sufficient quantity and variety of quadruple jumps to persevere through four and a half minutes of a free skate. He fell twice during his long program at the 2014 Winter Games in Sochi, Russia, and even though Hanyu won, it was a messy night for a number of top skaters. This time, Hanyu has said, it is important to be nearly flawless, not simply a victor. “Whoever is going to win, it needs to be an over-the-moon performance,” Orser, the coach, said. “We didn’t have that in Sochi. It would be nice to see that from a few guys, to kind of raise the roof.” Here’s how the men’s figure skating short program unfolded: The first American to take the ice is Vincent Zhou, 17. Skiing to “Chasing Cars,” by Snow Patrol, he nails his quad Lutz-triple toe but stumbles on the landing of a quad flip. His score of 84.53 puts him in the lead of the first three skaters. That quad Lutz by Zhou was the first ever landed in Winter Olympics history. In making history, he benefited from going early We should get several more quad Lutzes during the competition. A little odd Olympic trivia. Michael Martinez of the Philippines is skating to a work by the violinist Vanessa Mae, who is herself a former Winter Olympian. Four years ago she competed in the giant slalom for Thailand, finishing last. It later came out that some of her warm-up races were rigged to allow her to qualify. The first significant fall came from Yaroslav Paniot of Ukraine who hit the ice on an opening quad toe loop. Perhaps rattled, he went down two more times on easier moves. Paniot chose “Romeo and Juliet” for his music. That also did not end well. Julian Yee took the ice and made some history of his own. He is the first Malaysian ever to compete at the Winter Games, in any sport. He put a hand down one jump but performed creditably otherwise. His routine left him in fourth place in the early going. Currently, there are two Olympic-sized rinks in Malaysia (Yee trains in Canada). A good performance by Brendan Kerry, who skated to an eerie, dramatic cover of “Everybody Wants to Rule the World.” He nailed two quads, a toeloop and a Salchow, and took second place behind Vincent Zhou. Keegan Messing of Canada makes no pretense: He is a show skater. And he got the crowd clapping along with his impersonation of Gene Kelly in “Singin’ in the Rain,” complete with pantomime umbrella. He fell on his triple axel but took first place after 12 skaters with a score of 85.11 points. For the long program, he will skate as Charlie Chaplin. The crowd predictably loved Junhwan Cha of South Korea. His routine was clean, but it did not include a quad jump, limiting its upside. After 14 skaters, the top three are Michal Brezina of Czech Republic, Keegan Messing and Vincent Zhou. Figure skating competitions are always a showcase for eclectic music, and Paul Fentz of Germany may get the top prize, wheeling out “Wonderwall.” The Paul Anka version. But something about it seemed to inspire him. He hit his jumps, including a quad toeloop. Still, it did not impress the judges too much and he stood in ninth place. With three groups of skaters completed, Michal Brezina of Czech Republic still held the lead, ahead of Keegan Messing of Canada and Jorik Hendrickx of Belgium. There are 12 skaters to go, including all the big names. The second American to skate was Adam Rippon, who has garnered an outsized amount of attention in recent weeks, for being outspoken, openly gay and candid about struggles with an eating disorder. No quads for Rippon, but four triples cleanly landed. He thrust his fists in the air in exultation. The routine put him in first place. Rippon, 28, forces spectators to choose what they prefer, sport or art. He is a beautiful skater, but without a quadruple jump, he has no real chance of winning a medal unless the other contenders completely fall apart. Figure skating is changing, with newer music, sometimes with lyrics, and more creative costumes. But Dmitri Aliev, an 18-year-old from Russia, is a throwback, with his military-officer-cum-bellboy outfit and the classic music of Khachaturian. He also hit a quad toe loop. That puts him in the lead comfortably, with a score of 98.98. Patrick Chan, the defending silver medalist, has not been nearly as good since. He fell on a triple and wound up in second place, but well behind Aliev. Chan is a three-time world champion and, because of his skating skills and jumping ability, he always has to be considered a contender. But he has sometimes struggled with self assurance. Six skaters remain, including all the biggest medal threats. The order of skating: Yuzuru Hanyu, the defending champ; the American quad specialist Nathan Chen; Mikhail Kolyada of Russia; the young Japanese Shoma Uno; the veteran Javier Fernandez; and Jin Boyang of China. All of them will be attempting not just one quad, but two. Yuzuru Hanyu, the defending champion, was first up, skating to Chopin. He started with a quad loop, and aced it. Daringly, he saved a quad-triple combination till late in the program, when many skaters have grown weary. And he hit it with perfection. A sensational performance. As usual, a deluge of Winnie the Pooh dolls littered the ice. Hanyu moved into first place with a huge score of 111.68. Hanyu competed for the first time since October. He sustained ligament damage in his ankle in November, but showed no ill effects in the short program. The question is whether he will have the stamina to hold up for 4 1/2 minutes in the long program. Nathan Chen’s gold medal hopes took a serious blow when he fell on his first quad. He then stumbled out of quad No. 2, then stumbled on another triple. A disappointing showing for a guy known for his big jumps. Chen’s scores are poor, and he stands only in 17th place. Chen also did not do a combination jump, which is required. He is 29 points behind Hanyu; in the current scoring system, a skater can move up significantly in the long program, but Chen would appear to be an extreme long shot to make the medal podium. Following Chen, Mikhail Kolyada fell on his second quad attempt. He was perhaps the longest shot of the final six skaters and could not afford a mistake of that kind. Shoma Uno, skating to Winter from the Four Seasons, was the next man to try to take down Hanyu, his countryman. He hit his quad flip to get it started, then nailed the quad combo. A top-rate performance for the other Japanese star. He’s in third place, seven points behind Hanyu. Javier Fernandez of Spain has been consistently good for years, including a run of six straight European championships. Like his Japanese opponents, he hit his quads. Then it was off to a Charlie Chaplin impersonation and some spin moves (the music was “Modern Times”). Fernandez passes Uno and takes second place, four points behind Hanyu. Jin Boyang of China, skating to “Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon,” landed both quads as well. That should put him right in the mix for the medals on Saturday with Yuzuru Hanyu, Javier Fernandez and Shoma Uno. Boyang sits in fourth place heading into the free skate.