 BOSTON — It was nine years ago that Scottie Reynolds hit a game-winning runner here as the seconds ticked down in a round of 8 matchup with Pittsburgh, the shot that effectively started it all for Villanova Coach Jay Wright. He is still riding the wave of success that soft little teardrop shot created. On Sunday, Villanova did not need any last-second heroics to earn its second trip to the Final Four in three years. The top seed in the East Region, the Wildcats did not need to shoot particularly well, either. They just did everything else to smother No. 3-seeded Texas Tech, 71-59, at TD Garden. In what has been one of the most unpredictable N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournaments in recent memory, Villanova has remained a model of dependability, pacing through early wins against No. 16 Radford and No. 9 Alabama before a hard-earned victory over No. 5 West Virginia on Friday. And on Sunday, on tired legs, the Wildcats grinded out a win against one of the nation’s toughest defensive teams. All along, their formula has not wavered: Fill the floor with shooters for the four-out, one-in motion offense Wright patented in the mid-2000s. Every player has range, including the 6-foot-9 center Omari Spellman, who went 2 for 4 from 3-point range on Sunday. It is no surprise the Wildcats are seven 3-pointers shy of setting an N.C.A.A. Division I record for the most made in a season. Villanova, the 2016 national champion, has proved it is much more than a finesse team. The Wildcats illustrated that again on Sunday, when shots were not falling, particularly in the second half. They outrebounded Texas Tech, 51-33, and drew 23 fouls, leading to 35 free throws. But more important, they revealed a vastly improved defense that seems to be peaking at the right time. “That was definitely our best defensive effort of the year,” Wright said. The hidden truth about this Villanova team, the nation’s top offense, is that, despite being slightly undersize, it has quietly formed an energetic and complementary defensive identity. Since Feb. 24, the date of their last loss, the Wildcats are holding opponents to 66.7 points per game on 39 percent shooting. “We knew we can’t just get by on offense,” the reserve guard Donte DiVincenzo said. “We were going to run into a team that really buckled down, and we were going to miss shots.” Exhibit A: Sunday. The Wildcats’ 33.3 percent shooting was their lowest in a game since December 2015. Jalen Brunson, named the region’s most outstanding player, went 0 for 4 from 3-point range but still finished with 15 points, 6 rebounds, 4 assists and 2 steals. Eric Paschall had 12 points and 14 rebounds. “I was missing a lot of shots, and my teammates were looking me in the eye in the huddle and saying, ‘Jalen, keep shooting the ball. Keep shooting the ball,’” Brunson said. “That’s just the confidence they have in me and we have in each other.” Texas Tech’s surprising run to the round of 8 began with defense as a foundation, but the team’s casualness on the biggest stage in program history also stood out. The Red Raiders laugh, joke around and blast music during practices; their playlist includes hip-hop selections and Merle Haggard. “Diversity is the spice of life,” Coach Chris Beard said on Saturday. Beard would know a little something about it. His professional biography reads like the closing credits of a feature film. There were stops at Incarnate Word, Abilene Christian, North Texas, McMurry University, Angelo State University and Arkansas-Little Rock and U.N.L.V. And those were just the N.C.A.A. schools. Beard also coached two junior colleges (Fort Scott Community College, in Kansas, and Seminole State, in Oklahoma), a team in the American Basketball Association and the Swiss national team. All along this itinerant path, he has maintained an attitude of “win or go home,” one he said he cultivated as a youth player in pickup games at Northwest Park Recreation Center in Irving, Tex. The one-shot mentality never left him. So surprised was Beard to be in this position that after Friday’s win he could not even remember the name of the round his team had just reached. “What’s it called?” he asked. “Great Eight?” “Elite,” guard Keenan Evans corrected him, with a laugh. Evans, Texas Tech’s leading scorer, never found a rhythm on Sunday. Justin Gray never hit a field goal. Jarrett Culver never made an assist. Texas Tech tried to rally in the second half. A 3-pointer by Brandone Francis with six minutes remaining brought the Red Raiders within 5 points, but a steal by Brunson led to a Villanova layup by Phil Booth on the next possession. Two minutes later, a putback dunk by DiVincenzo, who finished with 12 points, kept the margin just wide enough. “That’s one of the best defenses we’ve played against,” Beard said. “We got some good shots, but they were all contested.” It was Villanova’s 134th win in the last four seasons, breaking the record for the most in a four-year span, set by Duke in 2001. These Wildcats have given themselves an opportunity to compete for two more. “He just kept saying, if we keep winning, we have a chance to keep getting better,” Brunson said of Wright. “That’s what ‘survive and advance’ means. We’re getting better.”