 PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — As the Mets were considering ways to upgrade the team in early December, they listened on trade proposals involving Matt Harvey, who was once called the Dark Knight and thought of as one of the best pitchers in baseball. Harvey was potentially expendable; he was one year away from free agency, and his innings pitched and injuries had taken their toll. Mickey Callaway, the Mets’ new manager, and Dave Eiland, the team’s new pitching coach, watched video of Harvey and talked to him, sensing he was in a good frame of mind. So they told General Manager Sandy Alderson that they wanted an opportunity to work with Harvey. Despite Harvey’s career-worst 6.70 earned run average in 2017, Callaway and Eiland still saw enough embers of ability. “We really liked how his stuff was coming out at the end of the season,” Callaway said Thursday. “We want the challenge of helping this guy out. He deserves it. And when he’s good, the upside is very, very high. We knew if we let this guy go, it’s going to be hard to find another guy with the upside that this kid has.” Harvey is not a kid anymore. He will be 29 by opening day. He proved he could overcome Tommy John surgery, sandwiching dominant 2013 and 2015 seasons around it. But a 2016 surgery to treat thoracic outlet syndrome has had much deeper effects. Harvey’s velocity was sporadic and dropped nearly one mile per hour, to 93.8, in 2017. His strikeout, walk and home run rates reached career-worst marks. He looked exasperated after each start. Harvey pushed himself too hard in his return, and his throwing shoulder was too weak, which eventually led to his missing two and a half months with a stress injury in his scapula. Harvey said Callaway and Eiland vouching for him was “definitely a confidence booster.” But so was being healthy and having a normal off-season of workouts to recover lost strength. “There’s a lot left in the tank,” Harvey said Thursday, sitting in the dugout at First Data Field at the Mets’ spring training complex. “I’m ready to go. I’m excited. The ball is coming out better than it has in a long time. There’s no reason I can’t be better.” Eiland said he and Harvey were working to correct the bad habits, specifically in his legs, that cropped up as Harvey overcompensated for injuries to his upper body. Harvey said doctors told him last year that his right shoulder was weaker than his nonthrowing shoulder. Pushing through workouts despite nerve issues in his shoulder, Harvey said he felt no progress last season. After rest, shoulder-strengthening exercises and a gradual throwing program this winter, Harvey said physical therapists told him his shoulder was the strongest it has been — “maybe ever.” Harvey will need that entering what may likely be his final season as a Met. Earlier in his career, he seemed poised for a big contract in free agency. Injuries and questions about his character (he was suspended three days without pay last season for failing to show up at Citi Field after a night of partying) have derailed him. He said he did not want to discuss the past or the future beyond his improvement and the team’s success. “I’m not looking to be what I was before because nobody knows if I can do that or not,” Harvey said. “I’m really looking forward to staying healthy and pushing to be better each day and each start, and we’ll see where it goes from there.” Callaway, the former pitching coach of the Cleveland Indians, and Eiland will have to resurrect Harvey’s pitching and his broken self-confidence. As a new manager, Callaway has emphasized a focus on the process instead of the results, and building a nurturing environment in which Harvey can thrive. Eiland said returning Harvey to his 2013 form was a goal; Callaway was more nuanced. “He might never be the Dark Knight again,” Callaway said. “But the Mets don’t need him to be that. His teammates don’t need him to be the Dark Knight or the guy he used to be. We need the best version of who Matt is today, and that version is going to be good enough.”