 Jahlil Okafor, a former N.B.A. lottery pick who had fallen out of favor with the Philadelphia 76ers — and completely out of their rotation — will get a fresh opportunity with the Nets, who acquired him Thursday in a trade with the 76ers. In exchange for Okafor, a 6-foot-11 center who appeared in just two games for the 76ers this season, the Nets sent the veteran forward Trevor Booker to Philadelphia. Booker averaged 10.1 points and 6.6 rebounds this season. The Nets also received shooting guard Nik Stauskas and a second-round pick in the 2019 draft. “This was one of those deals that, for us, looking big picture, works for us,” Nets General Manager Sean Marks said. The Nets have been trying to rebuild without the benefit of many assets or draft picks after years of roster mismanagement. They are beginning to accrue a modest collection of young talent, including D’Angelo Russell, the No. 2 overall pick in the 2015 draft. In that same draft, Okafor went third overall to the Philadelphia. “It’s about having some patience,” Marks said. “We’re not trying to get this back in one fell swoop.” Their on-court reunion will not come right away. Russell, a 21-year-old point guard whom the Nets acquired in an off-season trade with the Los Angeles Lakers, underwent knee surgery last month, and the timetable for his return is unclear. Like Russell before him, Okafor will be seeking a second chance in Brooklyn. As a rookie with the 76ers during the 2015-16 season, Okafor showed promise, averaging 17.5 points and seven rebounds a game. He was named to the N.B.A.’s all-rookie team. But the 76ers were abysmal, finishing with a 10-72 record, and the team suspended Okafor for two games after he was involved in an altercation outside a nightclub. At the same time, Okafor was not exactly burnishing a reputation as a lockdown defender. The team’s frontcourt grew crowded, and the recent emergence of Joel Embiid — a versatile and occasionally dominant center who meshes with Coach Brett Brown’s desire to push the tempo — made Okafor more expendable than ever. The 76ers declined to pick up the team option on Okafor’s contract for next season as they sought trade options. Okafor was eager to find a new home. “I would like for them to just send me somewhere where I can get an opportunity,” Okafor told ESPN last month. “I’ve done everything they’ve asked of me, and I would just like to get an opportunity to play with a trade or a buyout. I just hope something happens quickly.” The Nets were 9-14 ahead of their game against the Oklahoma City Thunder in Mexico City on Thursday night but have shown noticeable improvement this season despite dealing with a slew of injuries. Russell was averaging 20.9 points and 5.7 assists before he underwent knee surgery. The Nets also lost guard Jeremy Lin for the season when he injured his knee in October.