 SAN JOSE, Calif. — Top officials with the United States figure skating association said on Wednesday that they would welcome North Korea’s participation in the Winter Olympics next month in South Korea, setting up a potential conflict with the White House. “We’re hoping they’re there,” David Raith, executive director of U.S. Figure Skating, said of North Korea, which has qualified a pairs skating team for the Games and whose leader, Kim Jong-un, has signaled interest in participating. “It would be the safest place in the world.” The Trump administration has been more equivocal. Asked at a news briefing on Tuesday whether the United States supported participation by North Korean athletes in the 2018 Olympics, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said, “We haven’t made a final determination on that front.” Samuel Auxier, the president of U.S. Figure Skating, speaking here at the United States championships, which will determine the Olympic team, also raised the prospect that skaters might defy a call for a boycott of the Games if one came from President Trump. The president has not said anything publicly about a potential boycott. And after some ambiguous remarks last month by Nikki Haley, the American envoy to the United Nations, she tweeted that “the U.S. looks forward to participating in the Winter Olympics,” which begin Feb. 9 in Pyeongchang, South Korea, about 40 miles from the demilitarized zone that divides the Korean Peninsula. The possibility of a boycott surfaced again on Monday when Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, wrote on Twitter that the United States should avoid the Games if North Korea participates. “Allowing Kim Jong Un’s North Korea to participate in #WinterOlympics would give legitimacy to the most illegitimate regime on the planet,” Senator Graham tweeted, referring to the North Korean leader. The tweet came even as South Korea and North Korea were taking steps to open a dialogue. Mr. Auxier chided Mr. Graham on Wednesday at a news conference, saying of political leaders: “I think they need to be careful saying things like that, because these athletes have worked so hard to get there. The Olympics should be above politics. They shouldn’t be playing politics with this.” The United States’ boycott of the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow, in retaliation for the Soviet Union’s invasion of Afghanistan, was a “disaster” for many of the athletes who were not allowed to compete, Mr. Auxier said. “I’d hate to see that,” he said of another boycott, “just because Trump and Kim Jong-un are trying to see which button is bigger,” a reference to Mr. Trump’s tweet about comparing the size of the American and North Korean nuclear buttons. If there were “some type of war action, that would change things dramatically,” Mr. Auxier said. Otherwise, he said, “I don’t think our athletes would boycott if they’ve been working all their lives for this. Who knows what Trump will tweet out. But if he were to say to boycott it, unless there was a very clear reason why to do it, I don’t think our athletes would boycott it. They want to compete.” The ultimate decision on whether to participate in the Games, Mr. Auxier said, would rest with the United States Olympic Committee, a private, nonprofit organization. That stance is widely shared by American officials in Olympic-related sports, but it remains an open question whether President Trump could prevent the United States from competing in the 2018 Games. Scott Blackmun, chief executive of the U.S.O.C., told reporters last month that he would leave the legalities to constitutional lawyers but stressed that the Olympic committee was “100 percent committed” to sending athletes to the Games unless it was “physically impossible or legally impossible.” Mark Jones, a spokesman for the U.S. Olympic Committee, reiterated that position on Wednesday night, saying in a telephone interview, “We intend to bring a full delegation to the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games.” In his annual New Year’s Day speech, Mr. Kim said that he was open to the idea of sending an official delegation and athletes to the Games. South Korea’s president, Moon Jae-in, and the International Olympic Committee have sought North Korea’s participation in the 2018 Games for months as a way to reduce military and nuclear tensions on the peninsula. North Korea agreed on Wednesday to reopen a hotline between the two countries, and Mr. Moon has proposed a meeting of high-level negotiators there next week.