 The good news for the Tampa Bay Lightning is they’re up, two games to none, on the Devils in the first round of the N.H.L. playoffs, and they still haven’t played their best hockey. Alex Killorn scored twice during a four-goal second period, helping the top-seeded team in the Eastern Conference beat the Devils, 5-3, on Saturday afternoon in Tampa, Fla., in Game 2 of the best-of-seven series. The Lightning, the Atlantic Division champions, scored three times in a span of 2 minutes 47 seconds in the second period, and the reeling Devils pulled goalie Keith Kinkaid after Killorn’s third goal in two games made it 5-1 with 6:48 remaining in the period. Kinkaid, whose stellar play since January helped the Devils finish strong and claim their first playoff berth since 2012, yielded five goals on 15 shots. Nikita Kucherov, Brayden Point and Tyler Johnson also scored for Tampa Bay, which is ahead in the series after going 0-2-1 against the Devils during the regular season. Game 3 is Monday night in Newark. Andrei Vasilevskiy stopped 41 shots, limiting the Devils to the rookie Nico Hischier’s unassisted goal in the opening period, Sami Vatanen’s sixth career playoff goal late in the second and Blake Coleman’s third-period tally that trimmed Tampa Bay’s lead to 5-3 with eight minutes left. Goalie Cory Schneider came off the bench to keep the Devils in the game with 10 saves, nine in the final period. Five players scored in the Lightning’s 5-2 victory in Game 1, with just one of the goals coming from the team’s top line of Kucherov, Steven Stamkos and J. T. Miller — Kucherov’s empty-netter with a little over a minute remaining. Tampa Bay’s second and third lines once again did most of the damage, with Point scoring at 12:15 of the first period and Killorn, Johnson and Kucherov adding goals during a three-minute stretch of the second to build a 4-1 lead. Both of Killorn’s goals came on power plays. Kucherov’s second of the series deflected off Vatanen’s stick into the Devils’ net. Vasilevskiy stopped 29 of 31 shots in the opener and was outstanding again on Saturday, when the Devils outshot the Lightning, 44-25. BRUINS 7, MAPLE LEAFS 3 David Pastrnak had a hat trick and three assists to help host Boston blow out Toronto for the second straight game, leading the Bruins to a two-games-to-none lead in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference playoff series. Brad Marchand and Patrice Bergeron each had four assists for the Bruins, and Torey Krug had three. Tuukka Rask stopped 30 shots for Boston, and David Krejci, Rick Nash, Jake DeBrusk and Kevan Miller also scored. Two nights after Frederik Andersen allowed five goals in the series opener, he gave up three more on five shots in the first 12 minutes 13 seconds before he was replaced by the backup Curtis McElhinney, who stopped 19 of the 23 shots he faced. PREDATORS 5, AVALANCHE 4 Ryan Hartman’s empty-net goal with 1:09 left wound up being the winner as the Predators held off Colorado in Nashville for a two-games-to-none lead in their first-round Western Conference series. After Hartman gave the Predators a 5-3 lead, Alexander Kerfoot pulled Colorado to 5-4 with 35.8 seconds left. But the Avalanche couldn’t get another puck past goalie Pekka Rinne. Kevin Fiala had a goal and an assist, and Viktor Arvidsson, Ryan Johansen and Austin Watson scored a goal apiece. P. K. Subban and Mattias Ekholm each had two assists for Nashville, which has won 12 straight over the Avalanche. Rinne made 26 saves. Nathan MacKinnon had a goal and an assist, and Gabriel Bourque and Gabriel Landeskog each added a goal for Colorado. SHARKS 3, DUCKS 2 Logan Couture had a goal and an assist, Martin Jones made 28 saves and San Jose excelled on the road again, beating Anaheim to take a wo-games-to-none lead in their first-round Western Conference playoff series. Marcus Sorensen and Tomas Hertl also scored for the Sharks, who gave another disciplined, organized performance while moving halfway to their first playoff series victory since their Stanley Cup Final run in 2016. The Sharks also are halfway to their first playoff series victory over Anaheim, their longtime downstate rivals. Hampus Lindholm had a goal and an assist for the Ducks, who are leaving Honda Center with an 0-2 series deficit for the third time in their last five playoff series. Jakob Silfverberg scored in the opening minute and John Gibson stopped 32 shots as Anaheim dropped to 3-6 in its last nine home playoff games overall. Game 3 is Monday night in San Jose.