 INDIAN WELLS, Calif. — The lighthearted tweener tutorial is over. That was last week. Now it is on to much weightier tennis matters for Daria Kasatkina and Naomi Osaka when they next share a court. Both long shots for the title upon arrival, they are now the last women left in singles in this increasingly prestigious event here at Indian Wells, which many players rank behind only the Grand Slam tournaments and the year-end tour finals. “Well, it feels a little bit lonely because there’s, like, nobody here,” the unseeded Osaka said late on Friday after sweeping the final nine games of her semifinal against Simona Halep, ranked No. 1 in the world, to win, 6-3, 6-0. Osaka, a wry star on the rise who represents Japan, will still have Kasatkina for company in Sunday’s final after Kasatkina came back to defeat Venus Williams, 4-6, 6-4, 7-5, earlier on this cool Friday evening in the desert. It was the best duel of the tournament so far: a deeply diverting contrast in styles matching the enduring 37-year-old Williams against the 20-year-old Kasatkina, who was not even born when Williams first played in Indian Wells, in 1996 and 1997. Williams, who has yet to reach the final here, was often aggressive and effective on Friday. She was just two points from victory when she went up, 5-4 and 0-30, on Kasatkina’s serve in the third set. But she missed a big-swinging forehand return on the next point off Kasatkina’s second serve and never found her range consistently again. She faded as the young Russian gathered strength to close out her latest high-profile opponent. “The crowd was unbelievable,” said Kasatkina, the No. 20 seed. “To play Venus Williams on center court in the United States in the semifinals, one of the biggest tournaments, you just put your heart there, and that’s it.” After the first set, her coach, Philippe Dehaes, came on court to remind her that she is 20 and Williams is 37, implying that she could have superior staying power in a third set. But though Williams’s coach, David Witt, believed she became weary by the end, Dehaes said he didn’t think “age played much of a role after all.” “Venus was incredible, running everywhere,” he said. Since September, Kasatkina has beaten a series of leading players, including Halep and all four reigning Grand Slam singles champions: Jelena Ostapenko, Garbiñe Muguruza, Sloane Stephens and Caroline Wozniacki (twice). At Indian Wells, where the relatively slow court and high-bouncing conditions suit her varied game, Kasatkina has now defeated four former major champions in a row: Stephens, Wozniacki, Angelique Kerber and Williams. “I think something has clicked in the last few weeks,” Dehaes said. “And today was real confirmation. I can’t say yet that a champion is born. She has to win the title here, and she’s not there yet, but in terms of what she’s shown mentally, the others can start getting worried.” That seems clear, and both she and Osaka, whose talent is absolutely no secret in tennis circles, represent a new wave. Before Osaka finished off Halep, Kasatkina was asked what it would mean to have two 20-year-olds facing off in their first final in one of the tour’s top-tier events. “That we are coming,” she answered. “Very soon.” Ranked 19th, Kasatkina will break into the top 10 for the first time if she wins on Sunday. Osaka, who is 40th, will rise to No. 22 if she wins. Both are thriving with new coaches — Dehaes for Kasatkina and Sascha Bajin for Osaka — who were hired late last year. “I think this final is very refreshing; even their personalities are refreshing,” Bajin said. “They are both fun to watch, exciting players in different ways. Daria has her beautiful touch, always some crazy points. Naomi has raw power and pure talent, so it’s going to be exciting.” It will be another stylistic contrast, one in which Kasatkina — with her heavy topspin forehand, kick serve and crisply sliced one-handed backhand — will try to use all the tools in her well-stocked kit to keep the ball out of Osaka’s strike zone and deprive her of the leverage with which she is perfectly capable of ripping winner after winner from the backcourt. “Daria will have to do the Kasatkina,” Dehaes said with a grin. “It needs to become a copyrighted brand: change of rhythm, change of speed, change of trajectory. She also will have to come up a bit more to the net than she did today against Venus, where we could see that she is still a bit afraid of that.” When Kasatkina did make it to the net, she often produced drop volley winners, just as her deft touch and chutzpah allowed her to hit a critical backhand drop-shot winner from the baseline, with Venus serving at 5-5, 15-0, in the third set. It would have been a low-percentage shot for most players. “You just feel it, and you do it,” Kasatkina said. “It was by instinct, for sure.” Williams went on to lose the next three points and her serve with a backhand error and back-to-back double faults before Kasatkina served out the victory, dropping her racket to the court and putting her hands over her face before trotting forward to the net. It was her second victory in three meetings over Williams, who was particularly closelipped after this match. “Anyone who gets used to losses should give up on life,” Williams said. Halep seemed more resigned than disgruntled, citing the unexpectedly late hour of her match, the cool conditions and Osaka’s superior form and focus as reasons for her collapse. In an interview, Chris Evert, the ESPN analyst and former No. 1, called Halep’s lackluster performance “unprofessional.” Osaka, the daughter of a Japanese mother and Haitian father who is based in Boca Raton, Fla., has struggled with on-court negativity of her own. But staying upbeat and in the moment has been a focus with Bajin, who was Serena Williams’s longtime hitting partner before working with Victoria Azarenka, Stephens and, most recently, Wozniacki. Wozniacki won the WTA Finals in October with Bajin in her camp before splitting with him in November. In early December, after receiving an invitation from Osaka’s camp, he drove to Boca Raton from his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., for a tryout training session and sprained his right ankle badly after about five minutes. “One of those freak accidents,” he said. “I tried to keep going, of course, because I really wanted to work with her, so I bit down on my lip. It wasn’t the smartest thing to do because my ankle is still swollen now, but I think she liked the vibe and the communication was good and we decided to give it a try.” Osaka and Kasatkina have practiced together on tour and in Boca Raton. But despite being the same age, they have never played an official match as juniors or on tour. “I didn’t see her in juniors,” Kasatkina said. “But she’s playing really well. She’s hitting hard. She has a good serve. She’s improving so much.” Her tweener still needs improving, however. She has yet to master the between-the-legs and back-to-the-net shot that Kasatkina and many other leading pros find handy (and flashy) when they are chasing down lobs. Kastatkina, at the WTA’s invitation, did her best to help Osaka last week. “Technically, it was so-so, but the ball was going in at least,” Kasatkina said. So will Osaka try one on Sunday? “Yeah, right,” she said.