 ■ In N.F.L. Week 8, About 40 members of the Houston Texans knelt during the national anthem in protest of their team owner’s “inmates running the prison” remarks. In an exciting, back-and-forth game, the Texans lost to the Seattle Seahawks, 41-38. Follow our live coverage of N.F.L. Week 9 here. The rich got richer in a Week 8 when the top teams like Philadelphia and New England continued to roll, and there were no meaningful upsets. Here is what we learned in N.F.L. Week 8: ■ Houston Texans quarterback Deshaun Watson is remarkably fun to watch, even in a loss. Watson is a rookie, and will make some rookie mistakes — like the interception he served on a platter to Earl Thomas, who returned it for a touchdown, or the two times Watson failed to account for Richard Sherman in coverage and paid for it with interceptions — but Watson went out and nearly beat the Seahawks in Seattle on Sunday, outdueling Russell Wilson for much of the game. Wilson ended up winning with a stunning touchdown pass in the final minute, but Watson showed absolutely no fear of Seattle’s secondary and threw for 402 yards and four touchdowns, two in the fourth quarter. And he did most of it with a smile. ■ It is no fun to play in Buffalo. The Bills won again, making them 4-0 at home and 5-2 over all. The defense forced four turnovers despite injuries to two starters and the team’s having traded away Marcell Dareus, and the offense continued to hum along in its quiet way, with Tyrod Taylor passing for one touchdown and running for another, while LeSean McCoy rushed for 151 yards. Next week the Bills will take their act on the road, where they have been far less fearsome. ■ The Cowboys have a lot riding on Monday’s court ruling. Dallas got its record back over .500 thanks to two rushing touchdowns by Ezekiel Elliott, and appear to have salvaged the season after a 2-3 start. But a district court is expected to rule on whether the N.F.L. can enforce Elliott’s six-game suspension, which was given to him before the season after a lengthy investigation into domestic violence accusations. ■ More of Mitchell Trubisky is not such a good thing, at least not yet. Trubisky, the Chicago Bears’ rookie quarterback, attempted just seven passes in a Week 7 win, but in Week 8 he threw 32 times in a loss. Despite the sharp increase in attempts, Trubisky still has yet to crack 200 passing yards in a game. ■ The 2008 Detroit Lions might have some company. Both the Cleveland Browns and the San Francisco 49ers reached the season’s midpoint with 0-8 records, and neither team has seemed to show much improvement along the way. They have a chance of joining those 2008 Lions as the N.F.L.’s only 0-16 teams, though three other teams since 1944 have finished seasons winless in fewer games. In what is sure to reinvigorate the debate about N.F.L. players protesting or demonstrating during the playing of the national anthem, an overwhelming majority of the Houston Texans players knelt during the playing of the song. Coming into the game, the Texans had been widely expected to engage in a mass demonstration after their owner, Bob McNair, was quoted as saying “we can’t have the inmates running the prison.” McNair apologized to the players for the comment, and subsequently claimed he had actually been discussing the relationship between team owners and the league office led by Commissioner Roger Goodell, but players were unconvinced of his sincerity and several discussed potential plans for how to handle the anthem on Sunday. DeAndre Hopkins and D’Onta Foreman reportedly walked out of the team’s practice on Friday after hearing of the remarks. CBS, which was broadcasting a golf event until 4 p.m. Eastern, did not air the anthem. Pictures and video showed more than 40 members of the team kneeling, with only a few standing. On Friday, Texans’ offensive lineman Duane Brown told reporters the team would respond to McNair’s words. “I think it was ignorant,” Brown said. “I think it was embarrassing. I think it angered a lot of players, including myself. We put our bodies and minds on the line every time we step on that field, and to use an analogy of inmates in prison, that’s disrespectful. That’s how I feel about it.” On the opposite sideline Sunday, several members of the Seattle Seahawks sat on the bench during the anthem, including Michael Bennett, Sheldon Richardson and Cliff Avril. Linebacker Michael Wilhoite again took a knee. —- Want exclusive sports news, highlights and analysis from a rotating cast of New York Times journalists, delivered to your inbox once a week? Click here to receive our weekly Sports newsletter. —- Distinguishing between the rookie quarterback on one side from the Super Bowl winner on the other was difficult all game, but it was veteran Russell Wilson, not Deshaun Watson, who walked away with a win. In an entertaining shootout, the Seattle Seahawks beat the Houston Texans, 41-38. Watson set a tone for the game early with a soaring 59-yard touchdown pass to Will Fuller on the game’s opening drive in which the speedy young wide receiver simply outran the entire Seattle defense. He would continue to be aggressive throughout the game, not letting Seattle’s vaunted secondary, or his three interceptions, change his approach. But despite becoming the first quarterback to have 400 passing yards, 50 rushing yards, and four passing touchdowns in the same game, Watson found himself a hard-luck loser thanks to Wilson’s late-game heroics and a few of his own mistakes. Wilson ended up completing 26 of 41 passes for 452 yards and four touchdowns, the last of which was an 18-yarder to Jimmy Graham with 21 seconds left that gave the Seahawks the victory. Seattle looked like it would lose when Wilson was intercepted with just under three minutes left in the game. In the end, it was a handful of rookie mistakes by Watson that provided the scoring difference, as he was intercepted three times, with Richard Sherman accounting for two and Earl Thomas taking his back 78 yards for a touchdown. But even in the loss, the rookie proved he belongs in the N.F.L. and that his prolific passing in the last few weeks was not a case of picking on bad teams. Seattle will have another tough test next week when the Washington Redskins come to town, but their 5-2 record has them tied with the Los Angeles Rams for the best record in the N.F.C. West. Ezekiel Elliott ran for 150 yards and two touchdowns and the Dallas Cowboys took advantage of a blocked field goal return and three turnovers to beat the Washington Redskins 33-19 Sunday and move into sole possession of second place in the N.F.C. East. Playing in a driving rainstorm that made it difficult to hold onto the ball, let alone throw it, Dak Prescott completed 14 of his 22 passes for 143 yards as Dallas (4-3) heeded the message on Elliott’s cleats to “Feed Zeke.” With another hearing on his N.F.L. suspension coming Monday, Elliott carried the ball 33 times, scored twice for the second consecutive game and surpassed 100 yards for the third in a row. The game turned in the second quarter when Dallas’ Tyrone Crawford blocked Nick Rose’s field goal attempt and Orlando Scandrick returned it 86 yards to set up a 1-yard Elliott TD run two plays later. Instead of the Redskins (3-4) leading 16-7, the Cowboys went up 14-13 and never trailed again. — Associated Press New England’s offense sputtered some on Sunday, but they got some help from the Chargers in a 21-13 victory. It was a day of stalled out drives and costly penalties for both teams, but the key play for the Patriots came early in the second quarter when Ryan Allen’s punt was muffed by Travis Benjamin of the Chargers inside Los Angeles’ 10-yard line. Hoping to get something started in a 7-7 game, Benjamin recovered the ball and tried to cut back through his own team’s end zone to find room for a return, but he was tracked down by the Patriots’ gunners and crushed to the ground for a safety. The Patriots got a field goal after the free kick, and the five-point surge gave New England a lead they would never surrender. Tom Brady moved the ball with ease for most of the game, completing 32 of 47 passes for 333 yards, but other than a first-quarter touchdown pass to Rob Gronkowski, New England’s offense had to settle for four field goals and four punts. In a game where the Patriots’ offense could not finish drives, their much-maligned passing defense did a solid job of containing Philip Rivers and the Chargers. New England opened the season allowing 300 or more passing yards to each quarterback they faced in the first six weeks, but now have had their secondary play a big part in consecutive wins. Rivers completed 17 of 30 passes for 212 yards and one touchdown. The Chargers’ best play of the game came on an 87-yard touchdown run by Melvin Gordon early in the first quarter, which tied the Chargers’ franchise record for longest run. New England improved to 6-2 and will now have a bye-week before traveling to Denver to face the Broncos on Nov. 12. The Chargers, who came into the game on a three-game winning streak, fell to 3-5 and will also have a bye-week before facing off against the Jacksonville Jaguars. The Philadelphia Eagles got off to a slow start, punting on six of the team’s first eight possessions, but they found their offense and crushed the San Francisco 49ers 33-10. The game was hardly competitive, as the Eagles, playing at home, improved to an N.F.L.-best 7-1 without a hint of a comeback from a 49ers team that fell to 0-8 for the first time in franchise history. In familiar fashion, Carson Wentz was efficient and occasionally electric, completing two touchdown passes, one of which went for 53 yards to Alshon Jeffrey. It was Wentz’s fifth touchdown pass of 50 or more yards this season and he finished the day with a modest 211 yards thanks to the lopsided score. C.J. Beathard was not able to keep up, completing just 17 of 36 passes for 167 yards. He had one touchdown and two interceptions, one of which was returned for a touchdown, as he dealt with four sacks and 12 quarterback hits. Philadelphia will stay at home to face the Denver Broncos next week, while the 49ers will try to find their first win in a home game against the Arizona Cardinals. Seven members of the San Francisco 49ers knelt during the national anthem before the game against the Philadelphia Eagles. Eric Reid, Marquise Goodwin, Eli Harold and Adrian Colbert were among those kneeling. On the opposite sideline, Eagles safety Malcolm Jenkins raised his fist during the song. The story is getting old fast with the Jets. Take the lead, carry it into the fourth quarter and lose the game. It happened for the third straight time Sunday as the Jets dropped a 25-20 decision to the error-prone Atlanta Falcons in a game played in a heavy rain that led to fumbles, dropped passes and a lot of empty seats at MetLife Stadium. Instead of the Patriots and Dolphins rallying, this time it was a Falcons team that had lost three straight. “Man, it’s really tough. Just go look at the tape and see. Frustrating,” said Jets quarterback Josh McCown, who was 26 of 33 for 257 yards and two touchdowns. “You go out there and battle, battle the elements and move the football well at times and get in the end zone.” The Jets, McCown said, need to “figure out what the heck we’re doing in the second half that’s not allowing us to play the same way.” Bills beat Raiders: Rookie linebacker Matt Milano scored on a 40-yard fumble return on a rain-slick field, and the Buffalo Bills forced four turnovers in beating the Oakland Raiders 34-14 on Sunday. Tyrod Taylor threw a 6-yard touchdown pass to Andre Holmes and also scored on a 1-yard run for Buffalo. LeSean McCoy had a season-best 151 yards rushing and also scored on a 48-yard run. — AP Saints top Bears: Drew Brees completed 23 of 28 passes for 299 yards against a Bears defense that ranked sixth against the pass, and the New Orleans Saints beat Chicago 20-12 Sunday for their fifth straight win. Running backs Mark Ingram and Alvin Kamara each ran for touchdowns for New Orleans (5-2). Ingram finished with 99 yards from scrimmage, including 75 on the ground, but his two late fumbles kept the Bears in the game into the final minutes. Kamara had 76 yards from scrimmage — 48 receiving. — AP Panthers’ defense stops Bucs: Cam Newton threw for 154 yards and one touchdown and Carolina’s defense didn’t allow a TD for the second straight week, helping the Panthers snap a two-game losing streak with a 17-3 victory over the struggling Tampa Bay Buccaneers on Sunday. Newton rebounded from a subpar performance in a 14-point road loss to the Chicago Bears, leading a 17-play, 82-yard TD drive that consumed more eight minutes of the opening quarter, then completed three passes to Christian McCaffrey to set up a field goal for a 10-0 halftime lead. — AP Browns still winless: The Cleveland Browns took the lead three different times in their London matchup against the Minnesota Vikings Sunay morning, but after a field goal in the third quarter briefly put them up 16-15, they were scoreless the rest of the way, eventually losing 33-16. At 0-8, the Browns have hit the season’s midpoint without a win, and now have a bye-week to game plan for their Nov. 12 matchup against Detroit. The Vikings, on the other hand, go into their bye-week with four consecutive wins and an N.F.C. North-leading record of 6-2. In the late 1990s, when the Clinton White House was under siege amid revelations of the president’s affair with Monica Lewinsky and efforts by Congress to impeach him, it fell on Joe Lockhart, then the White House spokesman, day after day to defend his boss. But unlike many of his predecessors, he did not just take his marching orders. In countless meetings with the president and his advisers, Lockhart helped shape the message he would convey, and he aggressively pressed it to reporters. Last year, Lockhart took his pugnacious style to another embattled institution, the National Football League. Read Ken Belson’s story on Lockhart here.