 It just doesn’t look right: The 2017 World Series features the National League champion Los Angeles Dodgers and the American League champion … Houston Astros? Though the Astros have been full-time members of the A.L. since 2013, fans who remember their long N.L. tenure may find this year’s Series matchup jarring. Not only were the Dodgers and the Astros league-mates for 50 years, from 1962 to 2012, they also played in the same division, the N.L. West, from 1969 to 1993. They played each other about 20 times a season. They battled in a close divisional race in 1980, and met in a divisional playoff in 1981. So can the World Series, which usually offers the novelty of two teams that seldom face off, be a good venue for teams who already have a long rivalry? The Astros joined the A.L. in 2013 to balance the leagues with three divisions of five teams each. Since 1998, when Arizona and Tampa Bay joined the league as expansion teams and the Milwaukee Brewers moved to the National League, there had been a four-team division in the A.L. and a six-team division in the N.L. The Astros were chosen as the team to switch in part as an effort to create a rivalry with the Texas Rangers in the A.L. West. Because the National League had, on balance, bigger cities, the move to the A.L. was considered a negative by many fans, so much so that the team’s new owners were compensated $70 million to offset possible reduced television money. The Astros are the first team to make the World Series with each league. The only other team to switch leagues in modern times, the Brewers, has only one playoff series win since joining the N.L. The Astros’ N.L. high point was a World Series trip in 2005; they wound up being swept by the Chicago White Sox. Outside of that year, the Astros’ playoff record was poor in the N.L.: one series win in nine tries. Since moving to the A.L., their playoff series record is 3-1. A division or conference switch in other North American sports is unlikely to cause a huge commotion. But baseball for many years kept a clean separation of its two leagues, making such a switch more disruptive. Most notably, teams from different leagues did not play one another in the regular season, adding a frisson to the rare times they did, like the All-Star Game and the World Series. Leagues also maintained distinct identities. They had separate league offices, and their umpires dressed differently (A.L. umps wore their chest protectors outside their uniforms). There were rules, large and small, that differed. Fans of the National League, founded in 1876, dismissed the American League, which became a major league in 1901, as the “junior circuit.” In recent times, rules have become standardized. The debut of interleague play in 1997 took away the most unusual quirk of the leagues. The only significant distinction left is the designated hitter rule, still controversial enough to start a barroom argument. As time moves on, the memories of the Astros as a National League team will fade, and any future trips to the World Series will probably not cause many double takes.