 Connecticut, Notre Dame, Louisville and Mississippi State are the No. 1 seeds in the women’s N.C.A.A. tournament. The Huskies enter as the lone unbeaten team and will be vying for their 12th national championship. Last season, UConn came into the tournament as the overwhelming favorite before their 111-game winning streak ended with a loss to Mississippi State in the Final Four. This year’s Final Four is in Columbus, Ohio, and the national semifinals will take place on March 30. The national championship game is on Sunday, April 1. A’ja Wilson and South Carolina, the defending national champions, await as a possible round of 8 matchup for UConn in the Albany Regional. The Gamecocks are the No. 2 seed in the region. Florida State and Georgia are the other top seeds in the Huskies’ part of the bracket. UConn, which has been a No. 1 seed every year since 2007, opens up against 16-seed Saint Francis on Saturday morning. Like the Huskies, the Irish are a No. 1 seed again. Notre Dame has been a top seed the last seven years. This season might be one of Coach Muffet McGraw’s most impressive performances — her team lost four pivotal players to injury but only three games on the season. Two of those losses came to the Cardinals. The Irish are in the Spokane Regional and open up against Cal State Northridge on Friday. If Notre Dame advances, the Irish would head out west to potentially face No. 2 seed Oregon. The Ducks potentially could stay out west and play in Spokane, where Coach Kelly Graves spent many years as Gonzaga’s head coach. Ohio State and Texas A&amp;M are the third and fourth seeds in that region. Louisville won the A.C.C. for the first time this season. The Cardinals open up against Boise State and are one of eight A.C.C. teams in the field. The SEC has seven teams in the tournament, while the Pacific-12 has six. “We’re really excited about the opportunity,” Louisville Coach Jeff Walz said. “We’re excited to host the first two at home against two very good basketball teams. If we’re fortunate enough to advance, we get the opportunity to play in Lexington, which would be great for our fans.” The Lexington Regional is stacked with former N.C.A.A. tournament winners: Baylor is the No. 2 seed, Tennessee No. 3 and Stanford No. 4. Stanford potentially is headed to Lexington for the third straight year if it can advance. While Tennessee has been in the tournament every year since it began in 1982, Nicholls State, Northern Colorado, Mercer and Seattle will be making their first appearances. Mississippi State is a No. 1 seed for the first time in school history. The Bulldogs won their first 32 games this season before losing to South Carolina in the SEC title game. With most of their players back from last season’s runner-up finish — including Morgan Williams, who hit the game-winner in overtime to knock off UConn — the Bulldogs hope to make another deep N.C.A.A. run. The N.C.A.A. revealed Sunday the final eight teams under consideration for the last four spots. Buffalo, Creighton, Minnesota and Oklahoma got in. Purdue, Rutgers, Southern Cal and West Virginia were left out.