 COLUMBUS, Ohio — Geno Auriemma even hears it from his mother. “It’s O.K. if you lose,” Marciella Auriemma tells her Hall of Fame son. “You don’t have to win all the time. You win too much. That’s why people hate you.” Auriemma tells the story on a conference call and laughs. His mother can bust chops as fiercely as he can. But Auriemma is more annoyed than amused by the idea, since it is at the heart of the question he gets asked every spring as he coaches the Huskies to the Final Four: Is UConn’s success good for women’s college basketball? As if excellence can be detrimental, or needs a warning, like a pack of cigarettes. UConn (36-0) has reached the national semifinals for the 11th consecutive season, in search of its 12th national title. On Friday, the Huskies will face Notre Dame (33-3), a familiar and obdurate opponent. Mississippi State (36-1) and Louisville (36-2) meet in the other semifinal. Looming in Sunday’s championship game is a potential rematch with Mississippi State, which gave UConn its only defeat in its last 148 games on a dagger of a jumper in overtime of the 2017 semifinals. “Redemption, I don’t know if it’s the word, but I think we definitely have something to prove, not only to the rest of the world, but to ourselves as well,” UConn forward Gabby Williams said. In a broader sense, it has always been that way for women who want to play college basketball. The men’s N.C.A.A. tournament began in 1939. The women’s tournament did not begin until 1982, as the N.C.A.A. remained in a four-corners stall against equal opportunity until a full decade after the passage of Title IX, the federal law that prohibits discrimination based on gender. The women’s game has since developed on an arc almost identical to the men’s. In the first 37 years of the men’s tournament, Coach John Wooden and U.C.L.A. won 10 titles. In this, the 37th year of the women’s tournament, Auriemma and UConn have won 11 titles. Many men’s sports have relied on dynasties to popularize and mythologize their games: U.C.L.A. in college basketball, the Yankees in baseball, the Celtics in pro basketball, the Packers in pro football, the Montreal Canadiens in hockey. “There isn’t a sport that hasn’t experienced this era that we happen to be in right now,” Auriemma said last weekend. Yet, with no real evidence, it has become fashionable in some media circles to say that UConn’s success has hurt women’s basketball. (“Does a UConn fan even find this enjoyable?” Darren Rovell of ESPN wrote when the team led Cincinnati, 43-5, during a game in the American Athletic Conference tournament.) It is a familiar, if dispiriting, diminishment of the achievement of female athletes: access often granted belatedly, voracious success often belittled. “It’s O.K. when it happens to a men’s team because men can do no wrong,” Auriemma said facetiously. “And men are great and men are writing about men.” Several prominent columnists criticized UConn and Auriemma for the Huskies’ 88-point rout of St. Francis of Pennsylvania in the first round of the tournament. But the outcome had nothing to do with attempting to humiliate an opponent. It had everything to do with St. Francis’ decision to run with UConn and to attempt 57 3-point shots. Forty-seven of them missed, creating an E-ZPass lane of layups at the other end. Joe Haigh, the St. Francis coach, did not criticize Auriemma. He complimented the Huskies for a relentless pursuit of perfection. “It’s a silly argument to say that excellence or greatness is a bad thing,” Haigh told Bleacher Report. “We played the game our way &amp; didn’t quit at any point, no matter what the scoreboard said,” Haigh later wrote on Twitter. “UConn respected our program &amp; the game of basketball by competing every possession like they should.” Of course, there have long been routs in the men’s tournament, too. Loyola-Chicago, back in the Final Four this year with its spiritual cheerleader, Sister Jean, won an N.C.A.A. title in 1963 after dispatching its opening-round opponent by 111-42. With Lew Alcindor, now Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, at center for U.C.L.A. in the late 1960s, the Bruins won games in the West Region by 109-60 and 90-52 and a national semifinal by 101-69. Given the visibility and legitimacy that UConn provides, along with the challenge to other teams to improve, “there is no question it’s great for women’s basketball,” said Joanne P. McCallie, the coach at Duke, which lost to the Huskies in the semifinals of the Albany Regional. To think otherwise, McCallie said, “would be a very odd belief system.” While all the participants in this year’s Final Four are No. 1 seeds, there has been an undeniable leveling in women’s college basketball. Buffalo and Central Michigan, two No. 11 seeds, advanced to regional semifinals. Tennessee, an eight-time champion, lost for the first time at home in the N.C.A.A. tournament. And for the first time in five seasons, UConn is not defending a title. “Thank you to all of you that reminded me every day that we didn’t win last year, just in case I had forgotten,” Auriemma said on Monday as UConn fans convulsed in laughter after the Huskies defeated South Carolina, the 2017 champion, in the final of the Albany Regional. But this is another season, and UConn is two victories from another title. Such rapacious success should be savored, not criticized, said Jeff Walz, Louisville’s coach. Few complain when Alabama sweeps through college football “beating the tar out of everybody,” Walz said. And, he added, there was no humbug chorus in the 1960s and ’70s shouting that U.C.L.A.’s dominance was harmful to men’s college basketball. “It’s really just a shame that people can’t enjoy and appreciate how good they are,” Walz said of the Huskies. “I mean, it’s pretty darn impressive.”