 More than two years after Eugenie Bouchard fell and hit her head at the United States Open, her lawyers will be in federal court Tuesday in Brooklyn for the start of jury selection in her trial against the United States Tennis Association. Bouchard sued the U.S.T.A. in 2015, about six weeks after she withdrew from the singles, doubles and mixed doubles events at the U.S. Open because of a concussion she said she had sustained after slipping in the trainers’ room late on Sept. 4. Bouchard blamed her injury on a cleaning fluid applied to the floor in the dimly lit room. A former top-five player who reached the Wimbledon singles final in 2014, Bouchard is seeking damages for past and future physical and psychological suffering, medical expenses, and lost earnings — which include lost prize money, appearance fees, potential endorsement deals and various bonuses. The U.S.T.A. has countered Bouchard’s claims of negligence by its tournament staff, contending that she assumed risk by entering the training room after normal hours. Over the rest of 2015 season, Bouchard played only one match after her injury, about a month later, in Beijing. She retired from the match midway through the second set because of dizziness. She has not cited concussion symptoms as an issue since the start of the 2016 season. The sides have not come close to a settlement at any point in the 28 months since Bouchard filed the lawsuit. She attended the most recent settlement conference on Feb. 9 but no compromise was reached. Bouchard’s lawyer, Benedict Morelli, has said he is seeking “millions and millions” of dollars in compensation for her injuries. Potential jurors will be asked a wide range of questions on Tuesday, with several queries having been pre-submitted by each side, including: “Have you ever played tennis as an amateur?” “Do you have any personal experience with traumatic brain injuries or concussions?” “How do you feel about celebrities?” The trial, at the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York with Judge Ann M. Donnelly presiding, will begin with a phase to determine the U.S.T.A.’s liability for Bouchard’s injury, with testimony expected from Bouchard as well as various people who were working at the tournament on the night of her injury. If the jury finds the U.S.T.A. liable for her injury, proceedings would next move to a determination of damages. That phase would include scrutiny of Bouchard’s potential earnings — past, present and future, and both on court and off, since the injury. Chris Widmaier, the U.S.T.A.’s managing director of corporate communications, said his organization would continue its policy of not commenting on active litigation. Among the first things to be decided will be whether Bouchard’s social media output can be considered in the case. The U.S.T.A. said in the pretrial order that Bouchard’s claims of ongoing suffering were “inconsistent with Plaintiff’s own admissions in various forms of social media and public commentary.” Morelli filed a motion to have any mention of Bouchard’s social media activity excluded. He said her public persona — including two consecutive appearances in the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue and a date to the Super Bowl with a man whom she met on Twitter — did not reflect the anguish and loss of confidence that continue to affect her results on court. “Because she is such a high-profile player, and does have a lot of sponsor commitments, she has to be out there,” Morelli said. “Also, it’s generating at least some income for her, because she’s had such a problem making income during these tournaments ever since she’s been hurt.” Morelli said Bouchard’s diminished ranking of 116th could be spun by either side to match its arguments: Bouchard’s team could argue that the ranking illustrates how her career was derailed by the injury, while U.S.T.A. lawyers may contend she had peaked long before her injury. While Bouchard reached the top five at the end of a breakout 2014 season in which she reached the final at Wimbledon and the semifinals at the Australian Open and French Open, her form dipped significantly in 2015. Still, she had notched three encouraging victories at Flushing Meadows — and two more in doubles — before her injury.