 LeBron James figured he had experienced everything in 12 postseasons. It turns out there was something new. Victor Oladipo scored 32 points and visiting Indiana outplayed Cleveland from the start while pulling off a stunning 98-80 victory on Sunday in their series opener, handing James and the Cavaliers their first loss in the opening round in eight years. It also was the first playoff-opening loss for James, who came in 12-0 in Game 1s. He didn’t realize he had been perfect in starting the postseason. “Is it?” James said. “I’ve never lost a game in the first round before in my career?” But while he knows the narrative before Wednesday’s Game 2 will be about the struggles of Cleveland’s playoff newcomers, James isn’t worried. “I’m down 0-1 in the first round,” he said. “I was down 3-1 in the finals. So I’m the last guy to ask about how you’re going to feel the next couple days.” The Pacers are feeling confident after beating the Cavaliers for fourth time this season. Indiana took control from the outset, opening a 21-point lead in the first quarter and pushing it to 23 in the third. The Cavaliers got within 7 in the fourth, but Oladipo, once a role player who has blossomed into an All-Star in his first season with Indiana, hit a big 3-pointer, and Bojan Bogdanovic helped put Cleveland away with a 3, making it 88-71. When the final horn sounded, the Pacers didn’t celebrate as though they had accomplished anything special. They calmly walked off, business as usual. “We believe that we can win,” Oladipo said. “We came into this game with a mentality that we wanted to attack on both ends of the floor and play the way we’ve been playing all year, and we did a great job of that. It’s only one game, it’s only Game 1.” The Pacers completely outplayed the Cavaliers, the three-time defending conference champions whose turbulent regular season has carried over into the playoffs. James had 24 points, 12 assists and 10 rebounds for his 20th career triple-double. But James got little help as Cleveland’s four other starters — Kevin Love, Jeff Green, Rodney Hood and George Hill — combined for 25 points. “They were more aggressive,” James said. “They just played inspired basketball, and they just took advantage of everything we wanted to try and do. They were more physical than us at the point of attack, and they were most precise with what they wanted to do, and we couldn’t score the ball.” Cleveland went just 8 of 34 on 3-point attempts and missed 8 of 20 free throws. The Cavs’ playoff theme is “Whatever It Takes.” Well, it’s now going to take a first-round comeback. CELTICS 113, BUCKS 107 Boston Coach Brad Stevens loves the postseason because it offers a chance to “bust narratives.” The Celtics took their first step toward shattering the belief they can’t win without their biggest stars. Al Horford had 24 points and 12 rebounds, and host Boston overcame Khris Middleton’s long 3 that beat the fourth-quarter buzzer, topping the Milwaukee Bucks, 113-107, in overtime to open the playoffs. The Celtics led, 99-96, with 0.5 of a second left in regulation when Middleton took an inbound pass on the far right wing and hit a contested 35-footer. Boston outscored Milwaukee by 14-8 in the extra period. Terry Rozier added 23 points, 4 rebounds and 3 assists for Boston in his first career playoff start. Jaylen Brown finished with 20 points. The rookie Jayson Tatum added 19 points and 10 rebounds. Rozier said he knew he was under a spotlight this postseason with Kyrie Irving out for the season after his knee surgery. “I just know I got to step up,” he said. “I know I got to fill big shoes. I don’t feel no pressure. I’m glad to be in this position.” Game 2 in the best-of-seven series is Tuesday night in Boston. Giannis Antetokounmpo led the Bucks with 35 points, 13 rebounds and 7 assists before fouling out in overtime. Middleton had 31 points, 8 rebounds and 6 assists. Malcolm Brogdon scored all 16 of his points after halftime. Part of the reason the Bucks were in bad spots is because they were hampered by turnovers. They committed 20, leading to 27 Boston points. “That’s not getting shots up,” Middleton said. “We feel like if we get a shot up, we’ll be good.” ROCKETS 104, T’WOLVES 101 James Harden scored 44 points and powered a big fourth-quarter run that allowed Houston to outlast visiting Minnesota, 104-101, in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series. Minnesota scored 4 straight points to get within 3 with about 30 seconds left. Chris Paul added two free throws after that for Houston, but a tip-in by Karl-Anthony Towns got Minnesota back within 3. After a bad pass by Paul gave the Timberwolves a chance to tie it with 1.5 seconds left, a shot by Jimmy Butler was short. The Timberwolves had a 1-point lead with about seven minutes left when Houston used a 9-0 run, with the last 7 points coming from Harden, to make it 94-86 with about four minutes to go. Harden capped the run with a 3-pointer that prompted Minnesota Coach Tom Thibodeau to call a timeout. Jeff Teague ended Minnesota’s scoring drought with two free throws after the timeout and added a 3-point play after a basket by Harden. Harden made another shot to give him 11 straight points for Houston before another basket by Teague. Harden got Clint Capela in on the scoring after that, finding him for an alley-oop that pushed the lead to 101-93 with less than three minutes left. The top-seeded Rockets had their hands full with the No. 8 Timberwolves on a night in which Houston made just 10 of 37 3-pointers. Harden made 7 of 12 3-pointers, but Trevor Ariza, P. J. Tucker, Eric Gordon and Paul combined to make just 3 of 22. THUNDER 116, JAZZ 108 Paul George scored 36 points to help host Oklahoma City defeat Utah in Game 1 of their Western Conference playoff series. George set an Oklahoma City playoff record with eight 3-pointers, blowing past the previous record of five. He made 8 of 11 shots from long range, and 13 of 20 shots over all. Russell Westbrook had 29 points, 13 rebounds and 8 assists, and Carmelo Anthony added 15 points for the Thunder, who will host Game 2 on Wednesday. The Jazz rookie Donovan Mitchell had 27 points and 10 rebounds, but he left in the second half with left foot soreness. He returned in the fourth quarter but was noticeably hobbling. Rudy Gobert scored 14 points, and Joe Ingles and Jae Crowder each added 13 for the Jazz.