 LONDON — As the president of Brazil’s soccer federation, Marco Polo Del Nero should have been here on Tuesday, watching his country’s national team play out a soporific 0-0 tie against England in an exhibition match at Wembley Stadium. Yet instead of exchanging pleasantries with executives from the Football Association in a suite high above the field, Del Nero was almost 6,000 miles away, at home in Brazil. Even there, though, it would have been understandable if his focus was not on the events unfolding under Wembley’s brightly lit arch, but instead on proceedings inside a wood-paneled courtroom in Brooklyn, where three soccer executives — well known to the 76-year-old Del Nero — are standing trial on corruption charges. Del Nero, often referred to in Brazil as just Marco Polo, easily could have been seated alongside them. He has been indicted on the same charges, which include wire fraud and money laundering conspiracy, but for almost two years he has avoided facing them by refusing to leave Brazil. That strategy has cost him one powerful post — his seat on the governing council of FIFA, soccer’s global governing body — but it has to date also kept him out of the reach of the American authorities. Of the dozens of soccer officials charged in the case, Del Nero is the only one still in power. And in a country that extradites its citizens only for drug crimes, he has remained not only a free man, but also a prominent figure, running the national soccer federation and also appearing at last year’s Rio Olympics. At the Olympics, and despite facing criminal charges, Del Nero welcomed FIFA’s president, Gianni Infantino, to C.B.F’s offices and presented the soccer leader with a canary yellow national team jersey bearing his name. FIFA has yet to sanction Del Nero. The stakes of the trial are high for Del Nero, who continues to maintain his innocence, but they have apparently done little to diminish his influence over Brazilian soccer. According to a high-ranking soccer official there, Del Nero is quietly planning to retain his leadership role atop the Brazilian federation, known by its Portuguese initialism, the C.B.F., by calling an election in April, one year before the end of his current term and two months before Brazil embarks on its quest to win a record sixth World Cup. Neither the embarrassment of not being able to travel with the team nor the accusations of receiving millions of dollars in kickbacks seem to have damaged Del Nero’s plans to remain in power of an institution that controls the most popular sport in South America’s most populous country. While some fans have held placards opposing his leadership at matches, and some sections of the domestic news media have criticized him, Del Nero has not faced a challenge from the constituency that matters to him: the regional soccer heads and team executives who elect the C.B.F. president. His calculations may change should clear evidence of wrongdoing on his part emerge, according to a person close to Del Nero. In that case, though, the plan is merely to hold the election as scheduled, in 2019. A spokesman for the Brazilian soccer federation said he was unaware of discussions around the timing of a new election, but Del Nero’s name has already come up in Brooklyn. This week, Alejandro Burzaco, an Argentine businessman who has pleaded guilty for his role in the scandal, was the first witness to implicate the absent Del Nero. Burzaco described a typical bribe payment of $600,000 annually to top officials in Conmebol, the South American soccer confederation. Burzaco said that figure was elevated to $1 million for some of the most powerful officials — what was known as “the presidential treatment,” he said, repeating a phrase he heard invoked by Del Nero and another defendant, the former Conmebol executive Juan Ángel Napout. That a man facing charges in a broad soccer corruption case can remain in the post and also contemplate extending his reign over one of soccer’s crown jewel nations might come as a surprise to those outside Brazil. But it is explained there by a longstanding system of networking that underpins not only Brazilian soccer, but also the nation’s political scene, according to the journalist Jamil Chade. Like Del Nero, Brazil’s president, Michel Temer, whose approval rating has long hovered in single digits, has so far avoided impeachment through the support of a friendly parliament. “It is a very similar situation because it’s not about national popularity, it’s not about justice, it’s about political support, and in this Del Nero has been as successful as Temer is,” said Chade, the author of the book “Politics, Bribes and Football.” To maintain his position, Del Nero, like his predecessor Ricardo Teixeira, has cultivated the support of regional soccer officials through the use of C.B.F. payments that in many cases form the majority of income of impoverished local associations. Teixeira picked more host cities than FIFA required to stage the 2014 World Cup, and Del Nero followed that by promising regions that didn’t get games a share of a $100 million legacy fund set up by FIFA. “That way,” Chade said, “everyone gets something.” When Teixeira quit soccer in 2012, citing health reasons but amid longstanding accusations of corruption, Del Nero took over his seat on FIFA’s executive board, while another official, José Maria Marin, was elevated to lead the national federation. United States prosecutors contended all three men benefited from bribes paid to secure marketing and television rights to popular national and regional competitions, but only one, Marin, is on trial this month. In court this week, Marin’s lawyer, Charles Stillman, argued that while his client was the titular head of Brazilian soccer, it was Del Nero who called the shots. To avoid having to mount his own defense, Del Nero has remained in Brazil, skipping all of the national team’s games played on foreign soil since 2015. He watched, mostly from afar, as Brazil tore through South American qualification to earn its place in next year’s World Cup in Russia. Brazil, led by Neymar, will arrive next summer as one of the favorites. But for now, it is not guaranteed that its federation president will be there to cheer on the side.