 Ten games in the final week of the N.F.L. regular season come with playoff implications, but in only one — the matchup between the Carolina Panthers and the Atlanta Falcons — do both sides have something to play for. In the other nine, the best bet for drama will come from a nonplayoff team looking to play the spoiler. The N.F.L. rearranged the schedule so that teams competing against one another for playoff spots on Sunday are playing at the same time, which should make for some good scoreboard watching. But the move also means there will be no prime-time game on Sunday night for the second consecutive week. Here are our picks against the spread: Last week’s record against the spread: 7-9 Overall record: 123-107-8 Jets at Patriots, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Patriots by 15.5 To say the Patriots (12-3) are looking past the Jets (5-10) is an understatement considering that nearly all of the talk in the past week has been about New England’s acquisition of James Harrison, the longtime linebacker of the Pittsburgh Steelers. The assumption is that Coach Bill Belichick wanted to tweak his chief rivals while gaining some inside information on their schemes ahead of the playoffs. What that talk ignores is that the earliest the Patriots and the Steelers can meet is in the American Football Conference championship game on Jan. 21. That meeting has a feeling of inevitability to it — the third-best team in the A.F.C., the Jacksonville Jaguars, has Blake Bortles as its starting quarterback — but the games before then still have to be played, and the Patriots will need to stay at least mildly focused to beat the Jets, who would love nothing more than to trip up the league’s gold standard. A win is not technically necessary, as the Patriots can still get home-field advantage throughout the playoffs if the Steelers lose as well, but considering Pittsburgh is playing Cleveland, New England should do itself a favor and take the Jets seriously. The Jets do not stand a real chance of winning, especially with Bryce Petty at quarterback, but it is strange to put such a huge point spread on a team that has exceeded the expectations of Las Vegas all year. Pick: Jets Browns at Steelers, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Steelers by 11 The Steelers (12-3) need help from the Patriots to secure home-field advantage, but they should have a fairly easy time taking care of their half of the bargain. All they have to do is beat the Browns (0-15), who are in line to be the second team to go 0-16 in a season — and the first to go 1-31 over a two-season period. One subplot: The Steelers’ Le’Veon Bell has a realistic shot at his first career rushing title. He enters Week 17 trailing the Rams’ Todd Gurley by 14 yards and the Chiefs’ Kareem Hunt by 1. With Gurley expected to sit out, Bell and Hunt will battle for a prestigious distinction. Pick: Steelers Bears at Vikings, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Vikings by 11.5 The Vikings (12-3) no longer have a chance to clinch home-field advantage throughout the playoffs, but they can get a first-round bye with a win or a tie. Even if they lose, they can get the bye with any of the following: a loss or a tie by Carolina, a win by New Orleans or a win by the Rams. The Bears (5-10) do not present much of a challenge. They have an opportunistic defense, which could be rendered mostly irrelevant by Case Keenum’s efficient style of play, and they have a promising rookie quarterback, who could be mostly irrelevant thanks to Minnesota’s spectacular secondary. The Vikings are looking to end their surprising season with an exclamation point. A big win at home would do just that, but the Bears should be able to keep it closer than 11.5 points. Pick: Bears Saints at Buccaneers, 4:25 p.m., Fox Line: Saints by 7 The Saints (11-4) very nearly had the N.F.C. South wrapped up last week when it looked as if the Panthers would lose to the Buccaneers. But some Cam Newton magic in that game’s final minute made the division come down to the final week. If the Saints can beat the Buccaneers (4-11) the division is theirs, but they can also win it if the Panthers lose or if both teams tie. The Buccaneers have lost five in a row, but have been close in four of those games, including three straight 3-point losses. This could be a repeat: another close Tampa Bay loss, but a win for underdog bettors. Pick: Buccaneers Panthers at Falcons, 4:25 p.m., Fox Line: Falcons by 3.5 This is the one game in which each team can alter its postseason fortunes. The Panthers (11-4) can win the N.F.C. South if they win and the Saints lose. They could even get a first-round bye if they win, the Saints lose or tie, the Vikings lose and the Rams lose or tie. That might be pushing it, but it is possible. For a wild-card spot, the Falcons (9-6) need to win or have Seattle lose, though they could also get in should they and the Seahawks tie. This is a mismatch in Carolina’s favor, but the Falcons are favored because the game is on their home turf and the consequences of a loss are dire. It’s an understandable spread, but one that the Panthers can easily beat. Pick: Panthers Cardinals at Seahawks, 4:25 p.m., Fox Line: Seahawks by 9.5 The Seahawks’ defense has been decimated by injuries, and in recent weeks, their offense disappeared. The Seahawks (9-6) were eclipsed by the Rams and then largely leapfrogged by the 49ers, but they have held together enough that a win in combination with a loss or a tie by the Falcons will put them in the playoffs. The resilience has not been replicated by the Cardinals (7-8), who have endured a second consecutive season of mediocrity. But the chance to play spoiler might be enough to at least make Seattle work hard to get past them. Pick: Cardinals Bengals at Ravens, 4:25 p.m., CBS Line: Ravens by 9.5 The Ravens (9-6) can thank a soft schedule in the second half of the season for a clear path to the playoffs. A win or a tie makes everything nice and tidy, but even with a loss they can get in provided Buffalo or Tennessee loses or ties. It is hard to imagine that Baltimore will scare anyone in the playoffs, on offense or defense, but the odds are overwhelmingly in the Ravens’ favor that they will get there. Even with all of that in mind, a point spread of nearly 10 points is unwarranted. Pick: Bengals Jaguars at Titans, 4:25 p.m., CBS Line: Titans by 3 Just like the Ravens, the Titans (8-7) can make things easy by winning their game and securing a wild-card spot. Should they tie, they would need a loss or a tie by both the Bills and the Chargers to get in. If they lose, they will need the Bills and the Chargers to lose. This might have been a cakewalk for Tennessee had Jacksonville (10-5) won in Week 16 against San Francisco, but the Jaguars will be looking to erase the memory of an ugly loss and enter the playoffs with some momentum, which means they will not rest their starters. Pick: Jaguars Raiders at Chargers, 4:25 p.m., CBS Line: Chargers by 7.5 The Chargers (8-7) recovered from an 0-4 start and are one of the A.F.C.’s best six teams after going 8-3 in their last 11 games. But to make the playoffs they need a lot of help. Even if they win, they are dependent on the results of games involving the Titans, the Bills and the Ravens. The permutations may not matter because the Raiders (6-9) would like nothing more than to close out their disappointing season by spoiling things for a division rival. Pick: Raiders Bills at Dolphins, 4:25 p.m., CBS Line: Bills by 2.5 The easiest way for the Bills (8-7) to end their 17-season playoff drought will be to beat the Dolphins (6-9) and have the Ravens lose to the Bengals. The first is certainly possible, even for the offensively challenged Bills, but if Baltimore can even scrape out a tie, then Buffalo ends up being dependent on the results of both the Chargers and the Titans. Pick: Dolphins 49ers at Rams, 4:25 p.m., Fox Line: 49ers by 3 The 49ers (5-10) started the season 0-9, but everything changed for San Francisco the moment it inserted Jimmy Garoppolo into the starting lineup. The 49ers are 4-0 since his promotion — he is 6-0 as a starter dating to his days in New England — and this game would be something of a preview for future N.F.C. West battles if there was anything on the line for the Rams (11-4). But with a division title secured, and no chance of a first-round bye, Los Angeles is just treading water until the playoffs begin. Todd Gurley, Jared Goff and Aaron Donald are all expected to sit out, taking any fun out of San Francisco stretching its winning streak to five games. Pick: 49ers Cowboys at Eagles, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Cowboys by 3 The Eagles (13-2) clinched home-field advantage throughout the playoffs, so beyond keeping the rust off before a two-week break and some notion of pride in beating an N.F.C. East rival, there is little reason to think they will keep the starters in long enough to win. The Cowboys (8-7), on the other hand, have some superficial reasons to care. Ezekiel Elliott needs 120 rushing yards to hit 1,000 for the season, and a ninth win would give Dallas consecutive winning seasons for the first time since 2008 and 2009. Pick: Cowboys Chiefs at Broncos, 4:25 p.m., CBS Line: Broncos by 3.5 The Chiefs (9-6) put their backs against the wall with a midseason malaise that nearly resulted in the Chargers overtaking them, but a three-game winning streak locked in Kansas City’s second consecutive A.F.C. West title and made this game meaningless. The Broncos (5-10) are favored at home, entirely because of the low stakes, but if Kansas City lets Kareem Hunt play — padding his statistics would help him sew up the Offensive Rookie of the Year Award and possibly win a rushing title — it can reach double digits in wins for a third consecutive season. Pick: Chiefs Packers at Lions, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Lions by 6.5 The Lions (8-7) are playing for a chance at a winning season and most likely for Jim Caldwell’s coaching job. The Packers (7-8) do not have nearly as much motivation, and will most likely go into the game without Jordy Nelson, Davante Adams and Aaron Jones. There is the matter of N.F.C. North pride, which may keep the game closer than the point spread indicates. Pick: Packers Texans at Colts, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Colts by 3.5 This could be the ugliest game of the season’s final week, with T. J. Yates starting for the Texans (4-11) and Jacoby Brissett continuing to tread water for the Colts (3-12). Both teams have reason to believe things will be better once their actual quarterbacks return next season — that is hardly a given for Indianapolis — but for now it is mostly interesting to see if Frank Gore can get the 74 yards he needs to be the fifth running back to run for 14,000 career yards. Pick: Colts Redskins at Giants, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Redskins by 3 While the game could not be less relevant, it may be Eli Manning’s last with the Giants (2-13) after a 14-year career that has included two Super Bowl Most Valuable Player Awards. It is also the latest crossroads in the relationship between Kirk Cousins and the Redskins (7-8), who will once again face the prospect of re-signing him, franchise-tagging him or letting him walk. Davis Webb has a chance to play some quarterback for the Giants, which will probably be good for the team in the future, if not on Sunday. Pick: Redskins