 After mounting a two-goal lead, and with fresh memories of squandering a similar margin in Game 1, the Washington Capitals emerged with a 4-1 victory over the visiting Pittsburgh Penguins in Game 2 on Sunday, tying the second-round Eastern Conference playoff series at a game apiece. The result came with a dispute and a potentially significant loss as the Penguins, the two-time defending Stanley Cup champions, came out on the wrong side of the N.H.L.’s video review on what would have been their second goal and defenseman Brian Dumoulin left the game after a hit to the head by Tom Wilson. Braden Holtby stopped 32 of the 33 shots he faced, continuing his strong play in the postseason by robbing the Penguins captain Sidney Crosby and his linemate Jake Guentzel with sliding pad saves. Pittsburgh argued that Patric Hornqvist scored one more goal in the third period, but no replays definitively showed the puck crossing the goal line. That and Wilson’s hit on Dumoulin left the Penguins steaming but also kicking themselves for starting slow and falling behind again. “They won the game in the first period,” Hornqvist said. “I don’t think we played our best game.” He added, “They were all over us.” Washington, which lost three two-goal leads through the first seven games of the playoffs, at least temporarily solved that problem. Ovechkin beat Matt Murray 1 minute 26 seconds into the game. Jakub Vrana scored on the power play later in the first period, and in contrast to Game 1, the Capitals made it 3-0 when Brett Connolly scored on a breakaway early in the second. “Game 1, it was tough,” Connolly said. “We played a really good game, I think, and they just kind of found a way to get some breaks and score some timely goals. We learned from that this time around.” The Capitals are learning about Murray, having scored all five of their goals in this series on his glove side. He made 18 of his 28 saves in the first period — and had to, in order to keep Washington from turning the game into a rout. Murray was not happy when a league review ruled that Connolly’s push on him moments before Vrana’s goal had not been enough to keep him from being able to make the save. “Pretty disappointed,” Murray said. “As a goalie, you just want to be able to do your job, and when something like that happens and you can’t do it, you just want to see the rule upheld.” Pittsburgh had an even bigger reason to be angry when Wilson was not penalized for checking Dumoulin in the head with his left shoulder in the second period. Dumoulin never returned and could potentially miss Game 3 on Tuesday, and Wilson faces a suspension. “He made contact with his head,” Crosby said. “Given his history and things like that, I’m sure the league will take a good look at it.” Wilson watched multiple replays and said he believed there was nothing else he could have done on the play because Dumoulin stopped and braced for a hit from Ovechkin. PREDATORS 5, JETS 4 Kevin Fiala scored 5:37 into the second overtime period, and Nashville beat visiting Winnipeg in Game 2, tying the Western Conference semifinal series at one game each. The Predators had the N.H.L.’s best road record during the regular season but got the split they needed before this series switches to Winnipeg for Game 3 on Tuesday night. The Jets posted the league’s best home record. Craig Smith and Fiala skated up on a two-on-one, and Jets defenseman Dustin Byfuglien failed to block Smith’s cross-ice pass to Fiala, who beat goaltender Connor Hellebuyck with a backhander. Ryan Johansen scored two goals, Viktor Arvidsson had a goal and two assists, and P. K. Subban had a goal and an assist as Nashville achieved both its 100th postseason victory as a franchise and Coach Peter Laviolette’s 50th with the team. Filip Forsberg also had three primary assists for the first time in the postseason in his career. Mark Scheifele scored two goals and had an assist for the Jets. Byfuglien had a goal and an assist, and Brandon Tanev added a goal. Tanev tied it at 3, putting the puck past Pekka Rinne’s right skate at 5:11 of the third. Johansen answered 34 seconds later, skating around Jets defenseman Toby Enstrom and beating Hellebuyck. But with 1:05 left in regulation and Hellebuyck pulled for the extra attacker, Scheifele forced overtime with his fourth goal in this series and his eighth this postseason. After taking a postseason-high 48 shots in their Game 1 loss Friday night, the Predators wasted no time getting on the board this time. Johansen scored 27 seconds in on Nashville’s first shot, ending Winnipeg’s streak of 10 games in which it scored the first goal. The Jets went 9-1-0 in that stretch, dating to the regular season. The Jets came back, scoring twice 29 seconds apart and taking the lead. Byfuglien scored between Rinne’s pads on a four-on-four at 12:47, and Scheifele made it 2-1 with a power-play goal at 13:16. Subban tied it with a slap shot for Nashville’s first power-play goal of the series at 5:04 of the second. A couple of minutes later, Rinne made a big pad save on a shot by Kyle Connor and then gloved a shot from Byfuglien. Arvidsson gave Nashville a 3-2 lead with a slap shot from the right circle at 18:41 of the second.  HONORS FOR HEROICS The Predators honored James Shaw Jr., the 29-year-old man who wrestled an AR-15 rifle away from a gunman at a Waffle House in Nashville a week ago. Before their game against the Jets, the Predators recognized Shaw and several emergency workers who responded to the shooting. The sold-out crowd gave Shaw an ovation.