 When the Big Ten announced the formation of a men’s hockey conference in March 2011, an instant hit was envisioned. After all, the conference united some of the most successful programs in college hockey, bringing into one league a total of 23 N.C.A.A. titles. And it would have access to the Big Ten Network, which could broadcast games throughout the country and reach nearly 90 million households. But in its fifth year of play, the “sure thing” is still searching for an identity, and this season offers an opportunity to reset. Penn State, whose rise to Division I prompted the creation of the league, is coming off its first N.C.A.A. tournament appearance. There are new coaches at the struggling powerhouses Michigan and Michigan State, which last year won 20 games combined. Most important, the conference is welcoming a seventh team, Notre Dame, which had been in Hockey East since 2013. With eight N.C.A.A tournament appearances in the last 11 years and fresh off a Frozen Four berth, the Fighting Irish arrived with both talent and cachet. “You’re not just adding another school — you’re adding Notre Dame,” Michigan State Coach Danton Cole said. The Big Ten also scrapped its neutral-site postseason tournament after four years of lackluster attendance at N.H.L. arenas in Detroit and St. Paul, Minn. Instead, all postseason games will be held on campus, hosted by the higher seed. There are signs of resurgence on the ice. In the most recent USCHO.com poll, five Big Ten teams were ranked in the top 17: No. 5 Minnesota, No. 7 Wisconsin, No. 10 Notre Dame, No. 16 Ohio State and No. 17 Penn State. Michigan received the most votes of any unranked team. “I think we’re a conference that’s really on the rise,” said Minnesota Coach Don Lucia, now in his 19th year. The Golden Gophers have won the first four Big Ten regular-season titles, but their fans have not embraced the new league. The rocky start for the conference can be attributed, in part, to old rivalries proving more powerful than new ones. When the Big Ten hockey conference was formed, Minnesota and Wisconsin abandoned the Western Collegiate Hockey Association, which began in 1951. Michigan, Michigan State and Ohio State left the 62-year-old Central Collegiate Hockey Association, which soon disbanded. The two Michigan teams cut ties with four in-state rivals. For Minnesota, the separations created even greater anxiety. Gone were multiple games a year each against Minnesota-Duluth, Bemidji State, St. Cloud State and Minnesota State, all within four hours of the Gophers’ campus. Their bitter border rival, North Dakota, was no longer a conference rival or a regular opponent. Since the first season of Big Ten play, Minnesota’s season-ticket base has declined from 7,271 to 5,511 this season. Another indicator of the ties that bind is that last season Minnesota charged record ticket prices for the two home games against North Dakota, and this year North Dakota’s most expensive single-game ticket ($99) was for Minnesota’s first visit to Grand Forks since January 2012. “We’ve lost some of the passion of our die-hard fans, and that’s not easy to get back,” said Joel Maturi, a former Minnesota athletic director and a past chairman of the N.C.A.A. men’s Division I hockey committee. “They didn’t like North Dakota. They don’t feel the same way about Ohio State or Penn State. And a lot of Minnesota people don’t feel the league has been successful because we haven’t done well in the postseason.” Since joining the Big Ten, the Gophers have reached only one N.C.A.A. regional final, when they got to the Frozen Four in 2014 but lost the championship game to Union. The most recent of Minnesota’s five national titles came in 2003. Maturi said he thought the Big Ten teams should have transitioned more slowly to a stand-alone conference rather than make such a drastic break. Asked if he thought a hockey league should have been created so quickly, he said: “My honest answer? No. But I think it will right itself over time.” The Big Ten is taking steps to strengthen rivalries and build interest. The conference schedule was expanded to 24 games to accommodate Notre Dame, and more conference games are being played early in the season. Ohio State opened its season at Wisconsin on Oct. 6, and by this weekend all seven teams will have begun Big Ten play. All six two-game series played thus far have resulted in splits, speaking to the competitiveness of the league. Ohio State Coach Steve Rohlik, a Wisconsin alumnus, said he enjoyed playing the Badgers opening weekend. “It gets you into the season earlier,” he said. Early-season series against rivals also build story lines and animosity for later in the season when points are critical. Wisconsin forward Ryan Wagner said he welcomed the opportunity to “get some hate going.” Despite being new to the Big Ten, Notre Dame is an old rival of its leaguemates as a former member of the W.C.H.A. and the C.C.H.A. Lucia, who played at Notre Dame, said the Irish joining the conference “is kind of like going back to the future.” Notre Dame plays its first Big Ten series this weekend at Ohio State. Wisconsin Coach Tony Granato said he remembered traveling from his home outside Chicago as child to see Notre Dame play the Badgers. “There were no bigger games than those,” he said. Winning, of course, solves many problems in sports. The recent struggles of Wisconsin, a six-time national champion, did not help the fledgling Big Ten. The Badgers won only 12 games combined in the two years before Granato arrived last season. Wisconsin is now on the upswing, having reached the Big Ten championship game, where it lost to Penn State in double overtime, in Granato’s first season. In addition to Penn State winning its first N.C.A.A. tournament game, Ohio State last season reached the tournament for the first time since 2009. “It takes a strong conference and strong teams to forge those rivalries,” said Michigan Coach Mel Pearson, who took over for the retired coaching legend Red Berenson. Brad Traviolia, a deputy commissioner of the Big Ten, said he expected at least three or four Big Ten teams to make the N.C.A.A. tournament this season. “If not,” he said, “we’re not living up to expectations.” No team currently in the Big Ten has won a national championship since Michigan State, then of the C.C.H.A., in 2007. But first things first, which is a conference season that awakens former passions and develops new ones. “As a conference moving forward,” Lucia said, “we need to embrace the new and forget about the old.”