 Since the late 1980s, when it debuted in the hinterlands of college football, the high-octane passing attack known as the “Air Raid” has grown into the most explosive, most fabulous and most influential offense in the land. The scheme, perfected by and most closely associated with the former Texas Tech and current Washington State head coach Mike Leach, calls for a more aggressive and creative approach to passing than anyone thought feasible in college football, where skill levels can be wanting and mistakes rampant. Just one team has won the national championship while running the Air Raid: the 2000 Oklahoma Sooners, who learned the offense the previous year from a 38-year-old offensive coordinator — Mike Leach. Now the Sooners are again contending for a national title. They play Georgia on Jan. 1 in the Rose Bowl. Once again, they are running a version of the Air Raid. It’s working. This season the Sooners led every top-tier team in yards per game (583) and passing plays of at least 40 yards (27). Quarterback Baker Mayfield threw for 4,340 yards and 41 touchdowns with a 71 percent completion rate, and won the Heisman Trophy.  The Sooners’ first-year head coach, Lincoln Riley, is as steeped in the Air Raid as anyone: He was both a quarterback and a staff member under Leach. Riley became a full-time assistant coach at Texas Tech under Leach when he was just 23. The Air Raid is as much about audacity as intellect. Leach never played college football, and he graduated from law school. Endlessly colorful, he has a stoner-bro sense of humor and similarly whimsical approach to offense. He has won more than 120 games as a head coach, but his teams have never finished a season ranked higher than 12th nationally. While coaches who run it need to know their Xs and Os, they really need chutzpah. The quintessential Air Raid play is called Four Verticals: four wide receivers sprinting up the field.  Riley has pointed to Leach’s outside-the-box thinking as the thing that most informed his approach to football. Oklahoma’s co-offensive coordinator Bill Bedenbaugh, who played under Mumme and Leach at Iowa Wesleyan, said the offense remained hugely influential to the Sooners, who have supplemented many of its passing concepts with a more robust run game. Today’s team runs several plays that Iowa Wesleyan ran three decades ago, Bedenbaugh said, "and we call‘em the same." Yet while the Air Raid’s ability to goose teams’ offensive numbers is undeniable, its win-loss record is spottier for several reasons. The blue bloods who tend to dominate college football have mostly been averse to the unconventional scheme, and its frenetic pace can strain the defense of any team that uses it because that unit ends up spending much more time on the field. However, since it is so potent in disrupting powerful and traditional defenses, it's a perfect weapon for overmatched schools that are not at the top of the pecking order, according to Hal Mumme, who first developed the Air Raid in 1989 at the tiny Iowa Wesleyan College. Leach, who was Mumme’s assistant at the time, was hooked from the get-go. “It’s a way of thinking, a way of being,” said S.C. Gwynne, author of “The Perfect Pass,” a book about creation of the Air Raid.  Riley and Leach’s other acolytes now comprise one of the sport’s most influential diasporas. “The fraternity will always be strong,” West Virginia Coach Dana Holgorsen said in an interview earlier this year. “When we see each other, it’s like you’re seeing your brother from a long time ago.” Another national title will provide extra vindication.  Hal Mumme, former Kentucky head coach. Starting at tiny Iowa Wesleyan in 1989, Mumme invented the Air Raid. He is currently the offensive coordinator at Jackson State. LaVell Edwards, former Brigham Young head coach.  Edwards, who died in 2016, inspired Mumme and Leach (who attended B.Y.U.) to use passing routes to stretch defenses beyond their means.     Lincoln Riley, Oklahoma head coach. He walked on at Texas Tech as a backup quarterback and quickly realized his calling, becoming a student assistant to Leach after one season. Riley spent several years in Lubbock, then moved to East Carolina before Bob Stoops hired him as his offensive coordinator at Oklahoma three seasons ago. When Stoops unexpectedly retired last summer, Riley became the youngest head coach in the Football Bowl Subdivision. Dana Holgorsen, West Virginia head coach. Holgorsen was a wide receiver at Iowa Wesleyan and later served under Mumme and Leach. Before he was at West Virginia, he also installed the Air Raid at Houston and at Oklahoma State (where Coach Mike Gundy still oversees a pass-happy offense). Sonny Dykes, Southern Methodist head coach. Dykes served on Mumme’s staff at Kentucky, and under Leach at Texas Tech. He has been a head coach at Louisiana Tech, Cal, and, currently, S.M.U. Mark Mangino, former Iowa State offensive coordinator. Mangino was the offensive coordinator on that 2000 Sooners team. He later served as Kansas’ head coach. Cale Gundy, co-offensive coordinator at Oklahoma. A former Oklahoma player, Gundy has been an assistant coach there since 1999. His older brother is Oklahoma State’s head coach.  Kliff Kingsbury, Texas Tech head coach. Kingsbury was Leach’s first quarterback at Texas Tech. He proceeded to break most school and Big 12 passing records. Josh Heupel, Central Florida head coach. The Oklahoma quarterback during that 2000 championship season, Heupel just received his first head-coaching job. Sonny Cumbie, offensive coordinator at Texas Christian. The other Texas Air Raid disciple named “Sonny.” Like Riley, Cumbie was a walk-on and backup at Texas Tech who later coached for Leach. He served under Kingsbury and now takes care of the offense for a defense-minded Gary Patterson at T.C.U. Seth Littrell, North Texas head coach. Littrell scored two touchdowns as a running back on Oklahoma’s championship team; he scored eight the year before, when Leach ran the offense. He was later the running backs coach at Texas Tech. Graham Harrell, offensive coordinator at North Texas. A three-year starting quarterback for Leach at Texas Tech, Harrell owns or shares several top-tier college football records. During his senior season in 2007 he threw for more than 400 yards in 11 of 13 games. Neal Brown, Troy head coach. A little-used wide receiver at Kentucky for two seasons under Mumme (and one under Leach), he gained his Air Raid wings several years ago at Troy under Tony Franklin, who coached with Mumme and Leach at Kentucky. Bill Bedenbaugh, co-offensive coordinator at Oklahoma. Like Holgorsen, Bedenbaugh played for Mumme and Leach at Iowa Wesleyan. Much later, he served under Holgorsen at West Virginia. Now he and Cale Gundy serve as Riley’s right-hand men on offense.   Jake Spavital, offensive coordinator at West Virginia. Spavital coached under Holgorsen at three different programs. Mike Jinks, Bowling Green head coach. Kingsbury plucked Jinks out of the Texas high school coaching circuit to serve on his Texas Tech staff. Bowling Green hired Jinks before the 2016 season. Doug Meacham, offensive coordinator at Kansas. Meacham coached under Holgorsen at Oklahoma State and alongside Cumbie at T.C.U. Rob Likens, offensive coordinator at Arizona State. Likens traveled with Dykes from Louisiana Tech to Cal, where he helped make Jared Goff the top N.F.L. draft pick in 2016. Art Briles, former Baylor head coach. Briles, who was fired in 2016 following revelations of widespread sexual assault allegations against Baylor players, designed a powerful, pass-happy offense as a Texas high school football coach. His first college job, though, was as Leach’s running backs coach at Texas Tech. Tony Franklin, offensive coordinator at Middle Tennessee State. He calls his offense “The System,” but its pedigree is the Air Raid. He served on Mumme’s Kentucky staff. Kevin Sumlin, former Texas A&amp;M head coach. Sumlin’s offenses have had several different styles — not counting what Johnny Manziel decided to do on any given play. Sumlin was an Oklahoma assistant, and Holgorsen was his offensive coordinator at Houston.