 Even before Donte Ingram’s shot left his hands, carrying the hopes and prayers of Loyola-Chicago fans and the Ramblers’ N.C.A.A. tournament destiny with it, Sister Jean Dolores-Schmidt knew that Ingram would be the one to take the shot. Sister Jean, the 98-year-old nun who has served as the Ramblers’ team chaplain for more than two decades, knew from experience and the meticulous scouting reports that she files that in big-shot moments, the ball often finds its way into Ingram’s hands. So after Ingram’s last-second 3-pointer lifted the 11th-seeded Ramblers to a 64-62 victory over sixth-seeded Miami in a South Region game in Dallas, Sister Jean’s jubilant reaction was exactly what one might expect. “Thank God,” she said. “Thank God we won.” For Sister Jean and the Ramblers, the prayers had begun hours before. As has become her tradition, Sister Jean, who uses a wheelchair because of a broken hip, huddled with the team outside its locker room. In her pregame invocation, she asked God for what she always does: safety for the players and a fairly officiated game. But understanding the national stage that the Ramblers stood on, she sought a bit of divine intervention. “We prayed that God would help us,” Sister Jean said in a telephone interview minutes after the victory. “We said we would do our part and make our shots, but we needed God’s assistance. We said we were going into this game with great confidence and that we wanted to win this game so badly. We said we would be careful of our shots, careful not to foul.” At the end of the prayer, Sister Jean added one more request: “I asked that when the buzzer went off, we wanted to be sure that we got that big ‘W.’” She has seen few more thrilling games than Thursday’s win. Ingram’s shot gave the Ramblers, the 1963 N.C.A.A. champions, their first N.C.A.A. victory since 1985 and sent them into a second-round meeting with the No. 3 seed, Tennessee, which beat Wright State earlier Thursday. Sister Jean, who arrived in Dallas on Wednesday, said she was confident that Loyola could deliver again. As she sat outside the victorious Ramblers’ locker room, she was already looking ahead. “I told somebody, ‘Watch out, Tennessee,’” she said, “Here come the Ramblers.”