 Victor Montagliani, whom the soccer confederation for North and Central America and the Caribbean picked to lead it out of a corruption crisis, earned more last year than the leaders of FIFA, soccer’s world governing body, and UEFA, the European governing body. Montagliani was able to supplement a base salary of $1.25 million with a bonus that increased his gross pay to more than $2 million, according to information obtained by The New York Times. Montagliani took over the confederation, known as Concacaf, in May 2016, a year after a sweeping corruption indictment issued by the United States Justice Department brought down top leaders throughout the Americas. Montagliani’s income, which has not been reported previously, exceeds the $1.6 million earned by Gianni Infantino, FIFA’s president, and Aleksander Ceferin, who commands UEFA. FIFA’s annual revenue averages roughly $1.4 billion, while UEFA, by far soccer’s richest organization, averages nearly $4 billion. Concacaf produces only a fraction of that — often less than a tenth of FIFA’s annual revenue figure, and then only in its biggest years, when it holds its regional championship. Montagliani and Concacaf referred all comments on his compensation to Phillippe Moggio, general secretary of the confederation. “Comparing with FIFA and other organizations might not be the best way to look at it,” Moggio said in an interview. “Revenue is only a small portion of how to think about the overall composition of the organization.” As Concacaf’s president, Montagliani is responsible for overseeing a 41-nation organization based in Miami with members scattered from his native Canada to Suriname, which borders Brazil on the northeastern coast of South America. After the indictments, the crisis at Concacaf, was worse than that suffered by any of soccer’s six regional confederations, with the possible exception of South America. Concacaf’s members include the United States and Mexico, and Montagliani’s three predecessors all were charged with graft. About 40 percent of the administration has since been replaced. Moggio, a former N.B.A. executive, became general secretary in May 2016. His annual salary is $1 million. Since the scandal, soccer has renewed its focus on how much its leaders make from the game. FIFA and UEFA have decided to release executive compensation information. Infantino did not receive a bonus in 2017, though he is eligible for one in 2018, the year the men’s World Cup is played. That event accounts for the vast amount of FIFA’s revenue. The president of South America’s 10-member confederation, Alejandro Dominguez of Paraguay, earns $44,000 per month, according to news media reports. It is not clear what the leaders of confederations for Africa, Asia and Oceania earn. Concacaf hired external experts to help set Montagliani’s pay. A separate compensation committee negotiated the deal, which the organization’s top board members ratified. The committee agreed to a base of $1.25 million and the provision of a nonguaranteed 100 percent bonus. The figure was based on the assumption that Montagliani, an insurance executive, would spend 2,000 hours working on Concacaf business. Some of Montagliani’s bonus includes work done in 2016, before the terms of his bonus were fixed. He pays taxes in both the United States and Canada. Like most soccer organizations, annual income at Concacaf surges when the top regional competition is played. In good years, when the biennial Concacaf Gold Cup is played, revenue is about $100 million. When the Gold cup is not played, revenue drops to about $25 million. FIFA has budgeted $5.7 billion in earnings for the four-year cycle through the 2018 World Cup, and UEFA — through its own championship and also the lucrative Champions League — has projected collecting about $15.5 billion through its current four-year cycle. Concacaf is battling to restore its nonprofit status in the United States, a designation that remains uncertain after the criminal indictments against several former officials, including Jeffrey Webb, the last permanent Concacaf president. Webb pleaded guilty to a raft of charges after he was arrested in Switzerland in 2015. An internal audit found he supplemented a $2 million salary with at least an additional $1 million in expense claims. Webb’s deputy at the time, who was later banned from soccer, approved those expenses. Concacaf’s new regulations don’t allow for similar excesses. Private jet flights that once were common are now prohibited, as are stays at some of the world’s most exclusive hotels and limousines for top officials. Still, officials on the group’s executive committee are paid on average $125,000 a year. Efforts by some of the members to supplement that with bonuses were rejected. Montagliani gets an additional $300,000 for his role as one of eight vice presidents on FIFA’s governing council. The group meets three or four times each year. Concacaf’s three-person compensation committee includes two independent members. They received a report from external experts who looked at the pay of top executives of similar sports organizations based in North America, including the United States Olympic Committee, top college sports organizations and Major League Soccer, whose commissioner, Don Garber, earns a base salary of $5 million. Moggio said the compensation experts based Montagliani’s salary on the pay of his peer group. “I can assure you he spends way more than 2,000 hours per year,” Moggio said. “He’s involved in every part of the business.” At the height of the corruption crisis, outside consultants ran Concacaf as it teetered on the brink of collapse. Montagliani joined as the organization’s members approved a series of governance reforms. UEFA, by contrast, has largely been able to operate as it did before the scandal, although its former president Michel Platini was barred for receiving an illicit payment from FIFA. That has allowed Ceferin to enjoy a relatively stable tenure, with competitions like the Champions League continuing to swell the organization’s coffers. Under Montagliani, Concacaf has retained key sponsors, signed new broadcast agreements, revamped some of its competitions and created a new national team league. The organization also is in talks with South America’s confederation, Conmebol, which may cooperate to create a regular tournament for the Americas. Concacaf renewed its principal partner Scotia Bank on better terms, and signed richer contracts with Fox Sports in the United States and Latin America. A recent deal with Verizon, Moggio said, was a sign of increased confidence in the organization’s new corporate governance structures. He said the operating income target for 2017 was double the projected amount. Concacaf will present its latest financial results to its member nations at an annual meeting in Moscow shortly before the start of the World Cup there in June. It remains unclear if details of the top executives’ pay will be disclosed at that meeting because of continuing negotiations over restoring nonprofit status.