 CHICAGO — Up since 5 a.m., Sister Jean Dolores Schmidt was miked up and ready to go inside Loyola-Chicago’s empty basketball arena when the clock struck 6:30 Tuesday morning and the television cameras went live. Ten minutes later, dressed in her Loyola letter winner’s jacket and a maroon and gold scarf that appeared to come straight out of a Harry Potter novel, she looked directly into the lens like a TV pro and greeted a national audience that had fallen hard for her. “I’m really happy to be saying good morning to all of America today,” she said, instantly adding the three “Good Morning America” hosts in New York to her growing legion of admirers. The N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament has a knack for creating instant celebrities, and few have fit the mold quite so perfectly as Sister Jean, the 98-year-old nun who serves as the team chaplain for the Loyola men’s basketball team, which upset two opponents last week and will face Nevada in the round of 16 on Thursday. She is cheerful. She is charming. And, lately, she has seemingly been everywhere. Sister Jean’s appearance on “Good Morning America” capped an interview-filled 24 hours and proved, without a doubt, that 15 minutes of fame sometimes demand a full day’s work. William Behrns, Loyola’s assistant athletic director for communications, is one of two staff members who have been assigned to sort the requests for time with Sister Jean since the Ramblers’ success thrust them — and her — onto the national stage last week. Behrns estimated that as of Monday evening, his office had received 75 requests for interviews with Sister Jean, from outlets including “The Tonight Show,” newspapers, radio stations and cable television networks. Not everyone hears a yes. Respecting Sister Jean’s energy and privacy means that Behrns and his assistant, Ryan Haley, occasionally must play the bad cop for a subject who never wants to say no to anyone. “We have to save her from herself to a certain degree,” Behrns said. “I know everyone wants to get a piece of her, but we can’t do it for her own good.” Still, a day like Monday can fill up fast: Sister Jean wakes before dawn, an hour earlier than usual, and immediately spends time in her daily prayer and meditation. She routinely, and almost ironically this week, asks God for a peaceful day. She then meditates on a gospel story; lately, her choices have centered on reminders of God’s love for his children. “Whether we win or lose,” she said in an interview with The New York Times on Tuesday morning, “God is still with us.” Sister Jean tends to most of the daily emails that arrive in her inbox each morning, but now all of the news media requests that reach her are forwarded to Behrns’s office. After a sensible breakfast and exercises to strengthen the left hip she broke in a fall in November, Sister Jean turns her attention back to her scheduled media obligations. Chicago’s CBS affiliate is up first on Monday, shooting video of Sister Jean in her campus apartment, followed by a quick hit with Chicago’s WGN News, during which an anchor playfully needles Sister Jean that, in her bracket, she had Loyola-Chicago losing in the round of 16. “It’s going to be a tough game,” she says of the matchup against Nevada, “and I know that. But I haven’t had a chance since I got home from Dallas to scout them out and see how they’ve been doing.” By 8:15 a.m., an ESPN camera crew has arrived with more questions, and at 10 a.m. Sister Jean is patched into a radio interview with Ramblers Coach Porter Moser on ESPN’s “Golic and Wingo” show. Moser is asked about receiving heavenly help on Clayton Custer’s last-second shot to beat Tennessee on Saturday, and he quickly credits Sister Jean. “Without a doubt, I’m the luckiest coach in America,” Moser says. “I have an honorary assistant coach with direct divine intervention from above.” Sister Jean spent the afternoon back in her apartment, in front of her computer. She had about 300 emails waiting for her on Monday, and she said she read each one and responded to the ones she could. A few alerted her to the growing number of mentions and memes of her on Twitter. (Sister Jean does not have her own social media accounts.) Did she sneak in a nap? “No,” Sister Jean said, “I don’t have time.” Late afternoon brings another ESPN interview — her third of the day, this one a sitdown with Michele Steele in her apartment. That was followed by another CBS interview. Despite the flood of requests, Sister Jean tries to takes a fresh approach to each one, eager to deliver a new tidbit every time. By the time her Skype interview with NBC’s “Access”  — recorded earlier in the day — airs locally, her response to the often-asked question about handling newfound stardom has turned philosophical. “I just think everybody is a celebrity in his and her own way,” she said. “No matter what we’re doing, if we’re doing what we’re supposed to be doing, then each one of us is a celebrity, each one is bright in the eyes of God.” America’s most popular nun finally allows her body and voice to rest, knowing she has “Good Morning America” first thing in the morning, then a few minutes with National Public Radio and a visit with a USA Today reporter. She chuckles as she describes how she “has gone international” now. “I haven’t seen all the shows,” she says, “because I’m making them.” On Wednesday, her hair freshly done (“everybody wants me to look good on TV,” she says), Sister Jean was to join Loyola’s pep band and cheerleaders on a 6 p.m. charter flight to Atlanta, where her beloved Ramblers, the No. 11 seed, will play No. 7 Nevada. The traveling party will include the rest of what it now called Team Sister Jean: Tom Hitcho, a senior associate athletic director who acts as her de facto bodyguard and her wheelchair driver, and Joan Holden, the director of the Loyola Wellness Center, who is Sister Jean’s personal nurse on the road. Before her head hits the pillow on Monday, though, Sister Jean has one last obligation: As always, she thanks God for the peace in her day, and asks that he grant her some more tomorrow.