 CHICAGO — Hunched over at third base, Chris Taylor flashed a grin toward the Los Angeles Dodgers dugout and shook his arms. Perhaps he was trying to remove some excess dirt acquired during his run-scoring triple, a hit that seemed impossible to notch within the cozy confines of Wrigley Field. The image of a Dodger celebrating after a crucial contribution has become a recurring and haunting image for the Chicago Cubs during the National League Championship Series. They suffered through more of the same in Game 3 on Tuesday as the Dodgers rolled to a 6-1 win over the mistake-prone Cubs, putting Los Angeles one victory away from their first World Series appearance in nearly three decades. Although this is the Dodgers’ third appearance in the N.L.C.S over the past five years, this year’s edition, which racked up more wins than any major-league team since 2004, may be their most well-rounded to date. The Dodgers already had the best record in baseball on July 31, when they completed a last-minute deal for Yu Darvish, a four-time All-Star. The splashy move was meant to ensure that Clayton Kershaw, the workhorse of the team’s rotation, would not have to do it all alone in the postseason. In the previous four postseasons, Kershaw has started on short rest, but he has yet had to do so this postseason. Rich Hill, the team’s No. 2 starter, who was re-signed this off-season, pitched solidly in Game 2. But Darvish may have outshined both of them in Game 3, allowing one run and striking out seven over six and one-third innings. Even with his outstanding résumé, Darvish was welcomed to the Dodgers this summer with plenty of pointers. He said the Dodgers president, Andrew Friedman, and General Manager Farhan Zaidi offered suggestions on everything from the usage of his pitching arsenal to some of his mechanics. Despite a brief stint on the disabled list in August because of a back injury, Darvish posted a 3.44 E.R.A. in nine starts for the Dodgers in the regular season. He has been better in the playoffs. After allowing one run over five innings in a first-round start against the Arizona Diamondbacks, he was able to flummox the sluggish Cubs on Tuesday with good command and an array of darting pitches. “He was unbelievable,” Dodgers catcher Austin Barnes said of Darvish. And Darvish even offered some help on offense. After Cubs Manager Joe Maddon pulled his sputtering starter, Kyle Hendricks, in the sixth inning, he turned the ball over to reliever Carl Edwards Jr., who has epitomized the team’s struggling bullpen this October. With two runners on, Barnes drew a one-out walk against Edwards, who notched a second out with a pop-up from Joc Pederson. Up came Darvish. Dodgers Manager Dave Roberts had Curtis Granderson in the on-deck circle ready to pinch-hit, but he pulled him back to let Darvish hit — a puzzling move at the time. But it worked in the Dodgers’ favor, as Edwards walked Darvish on four pitches to hand Los Angeles a 4-1 lead. Darvish flipped his bat and walked to first base, the first bases-loaded walk by a pitcher in the postseason in 40 years. “I didn’t think I had a chance to hit,” Darvish said. “So I just wanted to try to do something, draw a walk or maybe get hit by pitch, anything just to score runs.” The Dodgers offense is not imposing by sheer power or production, but it has been effective all the same. The Dodgers work the count; in the regular season, they saw an average of 3.95 pitches per plate appearance, the second-best rate in the N.L. They also refuse to chase bad pitches; they swung at 26.2 percent of pitches outside the strike zone, the lowest rate in baseball. “It’s something that is part of some hitters’ DNA, but I think it’s something that can be learned if it’s a priority,” Roberts said before the game, adding later: “It’s obviously paid benefits for us to scare pitches out of the strike zone. But when mistakes are made in the strike zone, damage can be had.” There were prime examples on Tuesday. Ethier, who has made five N.L.C.S. appearances since 2008 as the Dodgers’ longest-tenured player, did not have to battle much: He smashed the second pitch he saw from Hendricks in the second inning, a fastball, for a solo home run to make it 1-1. But in the third inning, Taylor, the Dodgers shortstop, gave the his team the lead with a solo home run on the fifth pitch of the at-bat. Taylor took a high strike and three balls, and then clobbered the second strike, which was over the heart of the plate. In the fifth inning, Pederson reached for two pitches down and away before exercising restraint on the next three. He smacked a full-count fastball for a double into the right field corner. Two batters later, Taylor ripped the first pitch he saw down the third base line, and rounded the bases. Because of a bad throw by left fielder Kyle Schwarber, Taylor slid safely into third base. He stood up, looked at his teammates, and smiled. It has been that sort of lopsided series for the Dodgers. “One thing we’ve been talking about,” Ethier said, “that we’ve got to kind of enjoy the success we’ve had, but we still haven’t accomplished our goal.”