 LOS ANGELES — Angie Varela was 13 when she went to her first Dodgers game, in 1975. She took a bus by herself from her home in East Los Angeles, and sat in the bleachers on a sunny day in Chavez Ravine. It was a different era, and Varela, who is of Mexican descent, recalled how she stood out amid a sea of white faces. But nothing could dissuade her from her blossoming devotion to the team. Since that day, she has been going to Dodger Stadium regularly, thanks to season tickets in the upper deck in some years. And now when she goes she is a part of a crowd that is considerably more diverse and includes many fans who are Latino. And all of them are united in their Dodger blue. “In the ’70s, I didn’t feel the love so much,” she said before a recent playoff game. “Then, in the ’80s, there was a huge number of Mexican-Americans that came out because of Fernando Valenzuela. But now? This is the most I’ve ever seen.’’ Across baseball, the crowds at major league stadiums are often not so diverse, reflecting the overwhelmingly white makeup of fans in general, according to studies, though a quarter of the players are from Latin America. Interest in other sports and high ticket prices, among other factors, tend to suppress Latino turnout. Latino attendance can be seen in other ballparks, including Minute Maid Park in Houston, but the scene at Dodger Stadium seems to stand apart. “The diversity is fantastic,” said Jaime Jarrin, the Dodgers’ longtime Spanish-language radio announcer. “When I first started in this job, the Latinos coming to the ballpark were about 8 to 10 percent.’’ Now, he said, he believes the figure to be around 45 percent. “It is the most of any park,’’ he added. “Oh, by far. But we have also seen many Japanese people and Korean people here, too.” Jarrin, who is originally from Ecuador, has been broadcasting Dodgers games since 1959. He said he has seen a steady uptick in fans at Dodger Stadium who come from various backgrounds. Assumptions about someone’s ethnic identity can prove false, and much of the available evidence about the diversity at Dodger Stadium is anecdotal. Stan Kasten, the Dodgers’ president, said he had no statistical data regarding the ethnic composition of the fans at Dodger Stadium. Still, he said the team cherished that its fan base was noticeably diverse. “We are very proud of it,” Kasten said. “This is the organization of Jackie Robinson. The Dodgers were at the forefront, not only of breaking the color barrier, but we historically scoured the globe to find players. The Dodgers were the first to build an academy in the Dominican Republic. We’re a global team, and that is something that’s reflected in the stadium, too.” When the Dodgers brought Robinson to the major leagues in 1947, he became the first African-American to break through baseball’s wall of segregation, and many African-American fans were drawn to the team. In 1980, the Dodgers introduced Valenzuela, a charismatic left-handed pitcher from Navojoa, Mexico, who energized fans on both sides of the border with his unorthodox windup and stellar pitching. Valenzuela, who now does commentary on Dodgers games alongside Jarrin, left the Dodgers after the 1990 season. But the legacy of Fernandomania is still felt today. “People who were into soccer and boxing, they became big baseball fans because of Fernando,” Jarrin said. “Many of them still love the Dodgers.” And more players would come along and attract fans from various communities to Dodger Stadium. In 1994, the right-handed pitcher Chan Ho Park became the first player from South Korea to join the major leagues, and he tapped into the large Korean-American community in the Los Angeles area. The next year, the remnants of Fernandomania gave way to Nomomania, named for Hideo Nomo, the whirlwind Japanese pitcher who became such an instant sensation that fans from Japan would fly to Los Angeles for a weekend just to see him pitch. The Dodgers currently have two Japanese players on their playoff roster, the pitchers Kenta Maeda and Yu Darvish. There are also two players from Cuba (Yasiel Puig and Yasmani Grandal); one from Puerto Rico (Enrique Hernandez); and a pitcher, Hyun-jin Ryu, from Incheon, South Korea. “When Ryu was pitching this summer, I was sitting with like 20 Korean fans,” said the 55-year-old Varela, who works for a health care firm in Los Angeles. “We were all together and we had so much fun.” In recent years, the team has acquired popular Mexican-American players like Nomar Garciaparra, who delighted many fans by walking to his at-bats to the song “Low Rider,” by War, and Adrian Gonzalez, who is on the team but not on the playoff roster. There is also building excitement for Julio Urias, a 21-year-old left-handed pitcher from Culiacán, Mexico, who is injured. When fans arrive at Dodger Stadium they are greeted by signs written in English and Spanish. Along the top of the visitors’ dugout the word “Welcome” is painted in English, Japanese, Spanish and Korean, and some fans wear blue shirts that read, “Doyers,” an affectionate reference to the way first-generation immigrants in Los Angeles sometimes pronounced the Dodgers. But the Dodgers’ early relationship with Angelenos of Mexican descent was fraught with animosity and distrust after some residents of Chavez Ravine, where Dodger Stadium now sits, were forcibly evicted — first to make room for a public-housing development that was never built and then, in 1958, for the stadium. Some of those evictions were captured on television news programs. But over time, that episode was mostly forgiven as fans jumped aboard the Dodgers’ wagon. “For many Mexican-Americans, it was another example of how they were uprooted and pushed around,” said Eric Avila, a professor of history at U.C.L.A. and the chairman of the César E. Chávez Department of Chicana and Chicano Studies. “The Dodgers got off to a really bad start in Southern California. But in the end, people just loved baseball, and they eventually adopted the Dodgers.” Avila called Valenzuela’s electrifying rookie season in 1981 a tipping point. From that point forward, the Dodgers actually became an expression of Mexican-American identity in Southern California. “The Mexican-American community went nuts for Fernando,” he said. “They claimed him — and the Dodgers — as their own.” The Dodgers are also still popular among a segment of African-American supporters, especially older fans who were initially drawn to the team that Robinson played for. But as with the rest of baseball, the Dodgers have struggled to attract a substantial number of African-American fans to games. Curtis Granderson, a Dodgers outfielder who is African-American and has also played in Detroit and New York, said he noticed the fan diversity at Dodgers games — to a certain extent. “I know there’s a heavy Hispanic population and a white population here,” Granderson said. “I haven’t noticed a heavy black population. That doesn’t mean it doesn’t exist. But those two have definitely stood out the most to me. It is definitely a diverse group, and it should be. This is the second-largest city in the U.S., and you hope everyone is supporting the Dodgers.” Despite the early resentment created by the evictions at Chavez Ravine, Walter O’Malley, who owned the Dodgers, made sure to broadcast games on Spanish radio to spread the gospel of the team among the local Spanish-speaking population, and the broadcasts helped create more Latino fans. One of them was Juan Arrieta, who grew up in the Los Angeles area listening to Jarrin describe Dodgers games in Spanish because Arrieta’s father, a mechanic from Peru, did not understand English well at the time. It was only recently that Arrieta discovered that Jarrin is actually from Ecuador, just north of Peru. “I always just assumed he was Mexican,” Arrieta said, acknowledging how people can mislabel others. “Isn’t that awful?” Now a 45-year-old bartender living in San Diego, Arrieta and his wife, Diane, who is of Mexican descent, attend a handful of Dodgers games each year, and were sitting in the bleachers at Game 2 of the National League Championship Series. “I think the big difference nowadays is that you see people spread around the stadium,” Arrieta said about Dodger Stadium’s diversity. “It used to be that we would sit in the upper deck or out in the pavilion. Now it’s not segregated like that anymore. And it’s not just Latino. When Maeda or Ryu pitch, you see a lot of Asian fans at the game, too. It’s a real melting pot.” After Game 1 of the World Series ended and happy Dodgers fans were congregating in the parking lot waiting to leave, Varela came upon an older white man who said he was originally from Brooklyn and had been a Dodgers fan since then. He was sharing stories with a younger Mexican-American fan from Los Angeles, and the two men snapped photos of themselves together. “It doesn’t matter what color you are or where you come from or what religion you are,” she said. “What matters is we all love baseball, and that unites us.”