 Yet another court hearing resulted in yet another change in Ezekiel Elliott’s status, and he now appears to be suspended after a ruling against his request for an emergency injunction. If this sounds familiar, it is. Similar developments have already played out several times this season with Elliott, the Dallas Cowboys’ star running back. Barring further action, the N.F.L. said Thursday that Elliott’s six-game suspension — which came as a result of domestic violence allegations — was in effect. That meant he was banned from team facilities and would not be allowed to play in the Cowboys’ game against the Atlanta Falcons on Sunday. The latest ruling came on Thursday from the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, where the N.F.L. Players Association had argued on Elliott’s behalf that the suspension should be delayed until the court could hear his appeal. The court’s decision said an appeal hearing should be expedited, but it terminated what had been a temporary administrative stay of the suspension and denied a request for an emergency injunction. No date was given for when an appeal would be heard. The N.F.L. originally suspended Elliott this summer after a yearlong investigation into allegations made by a former girlfriend of his. Elliott was not arrested or charged with any crimes, but the N.F.L. built its case on statements made by the woman, along with photographs of the injuries he was accused of inflicting on her. Elliott has argued that the investigation and the appeal process were unfair to him. “This is bigger than a suspension, this is bigger than football,” Elliott told reporters last week. “It’s them trying to make me something that I’m not. I’m not an abuser, that’s not who I am. This is my name, this is my reputation, something that I’ll have to live with beyond football. So every day is worth fighting.” Elliott’s absence would presumably have a significant effect on the Cowboys, who have won three games in a row, thanks in large part to his regaining the form that made him the N.F.L.’s leading rusher last season. He is second in the N.F.L. with 783 rushing yards, and during the three-game winning streak he had 390 rushing yards and five rushing touchdowns. He also had a 72-yard receiving touchdown in the first game of the streak, against San Francisco. When asked recently about the Cowboys’ ability to play without Elliott, the centerpiece of the offense, Coach Jason Garrett said the team would be fine with Darren McFadden and Alfred Morris splitting his carries. “We have some veteran running backs,” Garrett said. “We have some depth at that position. It’s not like we’re just living this day, and we don’t think about the future at all — you have to do that. I think you build your team that way at all positions.” If the suspension is enforced for the entire six games, Elliott would be eligible to return for Dallas’s matchup against Seattle on Dec. 24.