 The former baseball commissioner Bud Selig once called Major League Baseball Advanced Media, the league’s digital and video arm, “one of the great success stories of not only the baseball business, but American business.” The person most responsible for that success is Bob Bowman, its chief executive for 17 years. Major League Baseball announced on Monday that Bowman, 62, was stepping down as president of business and media when his contract expires at the end of the year. “Bob’s vision made our game even more accessible and enjoyable to millions of fans,” Commissioner Rob Manfred said in a statement. In 2000, the 30 owners of Major League Baseball teams voted unanimously to contribute a combined $120 million — $1 million per team for the first four years — for equal ownership in Major League Baseball Advanced Media, or Bam as its known. It was an extraordinary investment. Bam would become the crown jewel of Major League Baseball, the envy of every sports league and one of the most important companies as the broadcast world transitioned to digital streaming. It generates hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue annually, and 75 percent of a spinoff company, BamTech, has been sold for $2.58 billion. Before being hired to run the newly-created Bam, Bowman had been the state treasurer of Michigan and a top executive at the conglomerate ITT Corp., which owned Madison Square Garden and the Knicks. Under Bowman, Bam has consistently been at the bleeding edge of technology, and transformed how fans consumed sports. Bam bought MLB.com and redesigned the league’s website; centralized and ran each team website; created MLB.TV, allowing subscribers to watch out-of-market games; and created the At Bat smartphone app, “the highest-grossing sports app of all time,” according to the league. Most important, the technology Bam developed to stream games simultaneously to hundreds of thousands of fans has underpinned some of the biggest internet streaming services. ESPN, HBO, WWE, Fox Sports and Hulu are some of the companies that have hired Bam to run their back-end streaming operations. In 2015, Bam spun off this part of the company as BamTech, and the next year Disney purchased a 33 percent stake for $1 billion. In August, Disney paid an additional $1.58 billion to increase its stake to 75 percent. By then, Bowman had stepped back from running BamTech on a day-to-day basis, though he remained on the board, focusing on his M.L.B. duties. As Manfred became commissioner in 2015, he promoted Bowman to oversee all of the league’s revenue-generating activities, like licensing and sponsorship, in addition to his Bam duties. What Bowman will do next is unclear. The league’s statement simply said that he was stepping away. Bowman did not respond to a request for comment.