 With 59 home runs and a National League Most Valuable Player Award last season, Giancarlo Stanton gave a precious gift to Derek Jeter, the new chief executive of the Miami Marlins. Stanton, in full bloom as baseball’s pre-eminent slugger, would be a commodity on the trade market. The problem, for Jeter, is that Stanton’s full no-trade clause allows him alone to control his destination. And because the Yankees are one of the few teams to which Stanton would approve a deal, there is a growing sense that he could wind up in New York. Nonetheless, one person in baseball with knowledge of the Yankees’ plans expressed skepticism that they would pull off a deal for Stanton. One reason for their reluctance may be that the Yankees just completed a renaissance season fueled largely by young, inexpensive talent, and they could sign a high-impact free agent — such as Bryce Harper — next winter without dealing from their prospect stash, which they would have to do to acquire Stanton. Then again, the Yankees have long understood the value of marquee attractions imported from elsewhere, like Reggie Jackson and Alex Rodriguez. They also have the financial might to alleviate at least some of the burdens the Marlins’ new owners inherited — and now desperately want to shed. The question is whether the Yankees would be willing to go above the luxury tax threshold in order to acquire Stanton. Just last month, the Yankees’ principal owner Hal Steinbrenner said it was “absolutely a goal” to keep payroll under that $197 million limit next season. Stanton, 28, has 10 years and $295 million remaining on his contract, which includes an opt-out clause after the 2020 season. Stanton is said to be willing to approve deals to the four teams that reached the most recent league championship series: the Los Angeles Dodgers, the Chicago Cubs, the Houston Astros and the Yankees. Stanton is from Southern California and widely believed to be focused mainly on the Dodgers, a team that is itself eager to trim the majors’ highest payroll and may not want to add Stanton’s contract. The Yankees recognize Stanton’s obvious talent but are saddled with bloated contracts of their own, especially that of Jacoby Ellsbury. If they could move some combination of Ellsbury (three years, about $68.5 million remaining), Chase Headley (one year, $13 million) and Starlin Castro (two years, $22 million), a deal for Stanton could gain traction. The Marlins are intimately familiar with the Yankees’ farm system, because Gary Denbo, Jeter’s vice president for player development and scouting, is a former Yankees executive. For now at least, the Marlins have asked teams to take on most or all of Stanton’s money while demanding elite prospects in return. The Marlins made that kind of deal on Thursday, sending second baseman Dee Gordon to the Seattle Mariners, who will absorb the remaining $38 million on his contract and gave up promising players from the low minors. But the value of Stanton’s contract and the power of his no-trade clause have made this negotiation much more complicated. Two teams, the San Francisco Giants and the St. Louis Cardinals, both announced on Friday that they would not be trading for Stanton. Both teams have appeared in multiple World Series during Stanton’s eight-year run of losing seasons with the Marlins, but Stanton does not want to play for either. “Our agreement with the Marlins to acquire Giancarlo Stanton subject to his waiving of the no-trade clause will not move forward and it is our understanding that the Marlins and Stanton are exploring other options,” the Giants said in a statement. John Mozeliak, the Cardinals’ president for baseball operations, said in a statement: “Unfortunately we were not able to convince Stanton to waive his no-trade clause and join the Cardinals. We felt this was a great landing spot for him, but it was not meant to be.” The Yankees did not expect to be Stanton’s landing spot. But if Jeter, their old captain, has no other options for a trade, they just might get him.