 AUGSBURG, Germany — The last time Mark Arcobello, Sean Backman, Broc Little and Brian O’Neill were teammates on the ice, they were bright-eyed students at Yale. College life was fun. The hockey team was good. Their metabolisms were fast. They played Nintendo Wii at the so-called hockey house, an off-campus dump where half of the team lived. They had weekly pregame burgers at Louis’ Lunch. On weekend nights, they went to Toad’s Place, where rival Quinnipiac players also hung out. Last week, several years and several thousand miles removed from New Haven, Conn., the memories came pouring out as the players convened for a wholly unexpected reunion in this modest Bavarian city. The Yale graduates — along with Keith Allain, the Bulldogs’ coach — were included on the United States men’s hockey team’s roster for the Deutschland Cup, a four-team tournament hosted by the German Ice Hockey Federation. And the unusual happenstance played out with suddenly high stakes. Earlier this year, the N.H.L. announced that it would not release its players for the 2018 Winter Olympics, meaning the coming Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea, will be the first without N.H.L. players since 1994. Instead, many national teams will be populated by players who might never have pondered playing on such a stage. Enter the former Yale players, who have chased hockey careers in Finland, Germany and Switzerland. Together, they exemplified the traits of the American group that found its way to Augsburg: Those who let their N.H.L. dreams fade, who pursued the game wherever else they could, who now have an opportunity to add one spectacular highlight to their careers. “Getting the chance to play for the Olympic team was something I never even thought about because there were always N.H.L. superstars going to the Olympics, not players like us,” said Backman, 31, a forward for Eisbären Berlin. “So to even be here right now is special, but to do it with these guys, and Keith, makes it even that much more special.” They flew to Augsburg, then, to chase a dream they didn’t know they had. The roster for the Olympics will be announced on Jan. 1. For the 29 players on the Deutschland Cup roster, the tournament was a final opportunity to make an up-close impression on the coaching staff. (The American team lost all three of its games at the tournament.) “There’s complete excitement in their eyes about what this opportunity is,” said Jim Johannson, the assistant executive director of hockey operations for U.S.A. Hockey. “It’s not necessarily a new lease on life, but it’s a really unique opportunity in this stage of all their careers.” Johannson made countless phone calls to prospective players this summer to bring them up to speed on the special situation. The player pool was suddenly wide open. He told them that nothing was guaranteed but that if they wanted a shot to make the squad, the opportunity would be there. For the players, raising their hands was easy. This generation has watched hockey superstars suit up for their respective countries and go to battle every four years — a competition far more intriguing than, say, an N.H.L. All-Star Game. The players in Augsburg were too young to have witnessed the 1980 Miracle on Ice, the single greatest cultural touchstone of American hockey, but they knew all about it, of course. Little, for instance, grew up with a picture frame in his room with a built-in speaker that played the final 10 seconds of Al Michaels’s famous call from that game. “I heard that thousands of times, and I can repeat it to this day,” said Little, 29, a forward for HC Davos in the top Swiss league. “Obviously, the Olympics are a dream as a kid. I’ve never played in the N.H.L., so the dream starts to fade as you get older. But once this popped up, it was like, ‘Wow, this may be a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.’ ” The players were part of a close-knit group at Yale. Allain became the team’s head coach before the 2006-7 season, when Arcobello and Backman were freshmen. Little entered school the following year, O’Neill the year after that. The program required recharging after three decades under Coach Tim Taylor. Allain quickly fostered an environment that balanced intense discipline — the players laughed about his habit of kicking the back of the bench — with open creativity. The results followed. In 2010, they won their first N.C.A.A. tournament game since 1952. Even amid their success at Yale, the players never viewed professional hockey careers as a sure thing. O’Neill said his main ambition as a teenager was simply to make it to a good college program, and once at Yale, he spent his time wondering what job he could secure after graduation. He sought out internships and odd jobs, working construction and manning a funnel cake station at a minor-league baseball stadium. “Hockey was on the back burner: if it happens, it happens; if it doesn’t, it doesn’t,” said O’Neill, 29, who played 22 games for the Devils a couple of seasons ago and now plays in Finland. “I think all of us had that mentality.” O’Neill has been trying to manage his own expectations during the national team selection process. But he admitted he had at times imagined what it would be like to attend the opening ceremony and walk alongside the other athletes, “all dressed up in Ralph Lauren stuff.” As much as the Yale players peeked toward the future, the week in Augsburg felt like a throwback. They made jokes and mercilessly ribbed each other in the locker room, like they had at Yale. They tried to revive their old synergy on the ice. Backman and Arcobello were roommates as sophomores, sharing a room that Arcobello decorated with haphazard drawings on loose-leaf paper. (Arcobello was also in charge of capturing the mice at the hockey house.) The two were groomsmen at each other’s weddings, which took place within a span of two weeks two summers ago. These days, Arcobello, Backman and O’Neill often train together at the same gym in Fairfield, Conn. “We had a tight group, and I think it got tighter each year as we had more success,” said Arcobello, who has played the most N.H.L. games among the four, with 139. The Yale program grew better each year, and in 2013, a year after the last of them had graduated, Yale won its national championship. Allain hailed the contributions of the four players in helping the team reach such a peak. “They were the backbone of Yale hockey,” Allain said, “and when they walk out the door, you think, O.K., that’s it, I’ll never get an opportunity to coach them again.” But that was only because he never imagined a moment like this. “I’ve watched these guys grow up, and, hopefully, we’ll all be at the Olympics together,” Allain said.