 The Houston Astros rode an early offensive surge to a hard-fought 5-3 victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers in Game 3 of the 2017 World Series. They walked away with a 2-1 lead in the best-of-seven series, with two more games to come at home, where they haven’t lost a game in this postseason. Here are our takeaways from Game 3: ■ Home runs dominated the scoring in Games 1 and 2, but in Game 3 there was only one, a solo shot by Yulieski Gurriel. While Gurriel’s blast set the tone in a big inning, the real damage from Houston’s offense came after the homer thanks to a double, a walk, a pair of singles and a sacrifice fly. ■ As expected, Houston’s offense looked more comfortable at home, with guys like Josh Reddick, Brian McCann and Gurriel suddenly becoming contributors. Jose Altuve, though, has stayed in a slump despite his home run in Game 2 and is batting just 3 for 15 in the series. The Astros are 7-0 at home in the postseason, and can win a championship at home on Sunday if they can stretch that to 9-0. ■ Dave Roberts continues to empty his entire bench. Two days after he used all of his position players and his entire bullpen in a loss, he used five relievers and three pinch-hitters in Game 3. The heavy use of pinch-hitters was especially surprising since the game was played in an American League park, so pitchers weren’t hitting. ■ Any question of whether or not A.J. Hinch had lost confidence in his closer, Ken Giles, was answered when the reliever was not even warming up in the bullpen when Brad Peacock came out to finish the game despite having come into the game way back in the sixth inning. Giles is in a deep funk, and keeping him out for at least a game was likely necessary to help him shake off his recent blunders. ■ Cody Bellinger of the Dodgers set a National League rookie record with 39 home runs, but he tailed off considerably after a dominant June in which he hit 13 homers and batted .286. In the playoffs he has been fairly horrendous, going 10 for 47 with 19 strikeouts. He hit one homer in the N.L.D.S. and one in the N.L.C.S., but he’s 0 for 11 in the World Series and has looked totally lost at the plate. —- Want exclusive sports news, highlights and analysis from a rotating cast of New York Times journalists, delivered to your inbox once a week? Click here to receive our weekly Sports newsletter. —- Here’s how the Astros beat the Dodgers in Game 3, inning by inning: Game 3 began at 8:21 p.m. Eastern with Lance McCullers of the Astros throwing a 95 mile-per-hour fastball low and outside for ball one to Chris Taylor of the Dodgers. McCullers eventually got Taylor to pop out to second and retired Corey Seager when Jose Altuve made a great diving play in shallow-right to knock the ball down before throwing Seager out at first. The inning ended with Justin Turner flying out to deep center. Waldstein: Yu Darvish takes the mound in the bottom of the first for the Dodgers as the first Japanese starting pitcher in the World Series in 10 years. The last one was Daisuke Matsuzaka for the Boston Red Sox in their four-game sweep of the Colorado Rockies in 2007. Matsuzaka also started Game 3. Darvish has plenty of experience pitching at Minute Maid Park from his days with the Texas Rangers. He comes into the game with a 4-1 record and a 2.16 earned run average, so the Dodgers are pinning a lot of their hopes on him replicating that success here. George Springer worked a 3-1 count against Yu Darvish and then pounced on a fastball in the zone, hitting a hard liner to center for a double. Alex Bregman made Darvish work, fouling off five pitches in an eight-pitch at-bat, but ultimately grounded out to third, which kept Springer at second. Jose Altuve flew out to deep center, which sent Springer to third, but Darvish got ahead in the count and Carlos Correa grounded out to short to end the inning. Lance McCullers threw half of his 12 pitches in the inning to one batter, but worked around a single to keep the game scoreless. He needed just three pitches to strike out Cody Bellinger, as the rookie infielder almost fell down as he swung wildly at a knuckle-curve. One pitch to Yasiel Puig and McCullers had a second out on a grounder to second, but Logan Forsythe got the Dodgers’ first hit on a single to right. Forsythe was able to steal second as Austin Barnes worked a six-pitch at-bat, but the half-inning ended when Barnes grounded out to third. Yu Darvish struggled to put pitches where he wanted them and that led to a great inning for struggling Astros batters. Only six outs into the game, Dave Roberts had seen enough and removed his No. 3 starter with the Dodgers already down 4-0. Yulieski Gurriel, who was 1 for 7 in Games 1 and 2, led things off by unloading on a fastball for a solo home run. Josh Reddick, whose bat had been almost entirely silent, doubled to left for his first extra-base hit of the postseason. Evan Gattis walked and Marwin Gonzalez, who had been in a horrible funk leading up to his game-tying home run in Game 2, singled off the wall in left, scoring Reddick. With runners on first and second with no outs, Brian McCann, who was hitless in the first two games of the series, looped a ball into right-center that brought home Gattis and sent Gonzalez to third. Darvish finally got his first out when George Springer, the sixth batter of the half-inning, lined out to second, but Alex Bregman hit a fly ball deep enough to center to give Gonzalez enough time to tag up and score, making the score 4-0. Jose Altuve doubled to left, sending McCann over to third, and that brought out Roberts, who replaced Darvish with Kenta Maeda. Maeda needed just two pitches to end the inning, getting Carlos Correa to fly out to right. Darvish’s final line was one and two-thirds innings, six hits and four runs. He walked one and had no strikeouts in the shortest start of his career. Waldstein: Darvish did not have it tonight. Even the outs were on balls that were hit hard. Gurriel started it by ripping a line-drive home run into the left field bleachers, which can be home to some of the cheapest home runs in baseball. Not to say that it was cheap, because he hammered the ball. But the distance is 315 feet, only 5 feet deeper than Fenway Park in Boston. But the wall here is about half the height of the 37-foot Green Monster, so it is one of the most tantalizing targets in baseball for a right-handed pull hitter, as Gurriel showed. It was the sixth home run hit in the last four innings of this World Series, going back to the extra innings of Game 2. Given a fairly sizable lead, Lance McCullers walked the bases loaded to start the third, but managed to get out of the half-inning having only allowed one run. It was a rough start, as he engaged in a battle with Joc Pederson. The boom-or-bust hitter fought off several good pitches in what proved to be a nine-pitch walk. Undoubtedly frustrated by putting Pederson on base, McCullers responded with walks to Kike Hernandez and Chris Taylor. He got some help when his defense turned a double-play on a grounder from Corey Seager, and ended the inning by getting Justin Turner to ground out to short. The inning could’ve gone far worse for McCullers, who should be happy with a 4-1 score. Waldstein: You want to make a pitching coach crazy? Get handed a 4-0 lead and then go to the mound and walk the No. 8, No. 9 and No. 1 hitters to load the bases with nobody out. That’s what Lance McCullers, Jr. just did. But thanks to some terrific defense, including by McCullers, himself, the Astros avoided big damage. The big play was getting Corey Seager to ground into a double play that required some exceptional synchronized movement and pinpoint throws from the Astros to complete. First baseman Yuli Gurriel threw a strike off the wrong foot to Carlos Correa coming across the second base bag and he, while in stride, delivered the ball to a moving target in McCullers covering first. That kind of cohesion begins in spring training. After a pair of lengthy half-innings for both teams, Kenta Maeda made quick work of the Astros in the third. He started by getting a pair of matching pop-outs to third from Yulieski Gurriel and Josh Reddick. A walk to Evan Gattis was a mild speed bump, but Maeda finished things off by getting Marwin Gonzalez to ground out to first to end the inning. A bang-bang play went Houston’s way, sending the Dodgers down in order. With one out, Yasiel Puig hit a grounder down the third-base line that Alex Bregman could not quite reach. The ball skipped into foul territory, but Puig took some time before realizing he should round first and Carlos Correa was able to corral the ball and throw him out at second. Stoked to have two outs despite the hard hit by Puig, Lance McCullers ended things by getting Logan Forsythe to fly out to right. Waldstein: Yasiel Puig has been caught admiring balls before, but this time he suffered from putting his head down and hustling to first base. After hitting a sharp bouncer down the third base line, Puig ran so hard that he did not see the ball had skipped past third baseman Alex Bregman. Puig overran first, slowed down and only then realized he should have been headed to second. By the time he restarted and slid into second, the ball was in Jose Altuve’s glove and Puig was tagged out. Kenta Maeda has done a terrific job of settling things down after Yu Darvish’s disastrous start. Brian McCann led off fourth against him by looping a ball just out of Corey Seager’s reach in shallow left field for a single. But Maeda was unfazed and went on to strike out George Springer on four pitches and Alex Bregman on five. He got out of the inning when Jose Altuve grounded out to short. Maeda is up to 38 pitches in two and one-thirds innings of relief as the Dodgers try to get as much as they can from one of the team’s three best relievers. Lance McCullers worked around some tremendous hustle from Joc Pederson to pitch another scoreless inning, with some help from George Springer. With one out, Pederson hit what looked like a single to center. But the young outfielder ran hard right out of the box and managed to stretch the soft hit into a double. Kike Hernandez sent him to third on a groundout to second, but McCullers got out of the inning when Chris Taylor hit a shallow fly to center that a diving Springer was able to snare for the third out. The Astros got another run thanks to some sloppy defense by the Dodgers. Tony Watson came in for Kenta Maeda with one out, and after getting a quick second out he allowed a single to Josh Reddick. Evan Gattis hit a dribbler back to Watson that looked like it might end the inning, but a low throw resulted in first baseman Cody Bellinger being tangled up with Gattis at first. The ball shot into foul territory, and Reddick was able to score. A strikeout by Marwin Gonzalez ended the inning, but the unearned run extended Houston’s lead. Waldstein: Kenta Maeda did a really good job in relief. When the Dodgers needed to stanch the bleeding, he gave them 2 2/3 scoreless innings before giving way to Tony Watson in the fifth. With the score 5-1, Dave Roberts’s focus is to get back in the game while not burning out his bullpen for the next couple of games. It’s a balancing act. He won’t go to his top guns unless the offense gets them back in the game. Desperately trying to keep the deficit to two runs, Dave Roberts let Tony Watson get one out in the sixth before turning to Brandon Morrow, the Dodgers’ top setup man, and while there was more drama than Roberts would have wanted, the score remained unchanged. Morrow would’ve had out No. 2 when George Springer hit a grounder to third, but Justin Turner’s throw pulled Cody Bellinger off the bag and Springer reached on an error. Morrow responded to the bad luck by walking Alex Bregman on four pitches, but then he struck out Jose Altuve and Carlos Correa to end the inning and get out of the mess. Waldstein: The Dodgers continue to get strong pitching from the bullpen, as Brandon Morrow — despite issuing a rare walk — strands runners at first and second by striking out Altuve and Correa. That’s top-notch escapability by him. After Darvish gave up four runs in the second, the Astros have scored once against the relief trio of Maeda, Watson and Morrow and the Dodgers are back in this game. Morrow walked only nine batters in the regular season. Brad Peacock came in to try to clean up a mess created by Lance McCullers. Unfortunately for the Astros, he allowed both inherited runners to score, and Houston’s lead was down to 5-3. McCullers was in immediate trouble. The leadoff man, Corey Seager, walked, and then Justin Turner doubled into the left field corner to put runners on second and third with no outs. McCullers got some help from Cody Bellinger, who struck out for the third time today — accounting for all of McCuller’s strikeouts — but with Yasiel Puig coming up, A.J. Hinch figured his starter had gone far enough and removed him for Peacock. Peacock got a soft groundout from Puig, which sent Seager home, and with two outs he threw a wild pitch to pinch-hitter Chase Utley that let Turner score. Utley ended up popping out in foul territory to end the inning, but Los Angeles has to feel better about their chances with the deficit cut to two runs. Brad Peacock kept things fairly quiet for the Astros. He worked around a two-out walk to end the inning when Chris Taylor grounded out. First baseman Yulieski Gurriel dove back to the bag to get the force-out rather than taking his chances on another close play with a pitcher covering. Dave Roberts still has a remarkably quick hook with his relievers, but pulling Brandon Morrow after his setup man gave up a double on his first pitch of the inning worked out when Tony Cingrani and Ross Stripling were able to get Los Angeles out of the inning without allowing any runs to score. Yulieski Gurriel absolutely crushed a double off Morrow. Josh Reddick noticed the infield playing deep and tried to bunt him over to third, but he popped it up and Cody Bellinger was able to sprint in from first base to snag it on the fly for the first out of the inning. Cingrani got one more out — in-between an intentional walk and a single — but was pulled with the bases loaded. Stripling responded well to the high-leverage situation, retiring George Springer on a deep fly to center that got the crowd in Houston excited before the ball landed safely in Chris Taylor’s glove. Waldstein: The Dodgers have used 17 pitchers in last 20 innings. They only have Josh Fields, Brandon McCarthy and Kenley Jansen left for this game, and Dave Roberts doesn’t want to use the last two — for different reasons. He wants to preserve Jansen for a potential save situation, and he just doesn’t want to use McCarthy at all. The fans at Minute Maid Park let out an enormous groan in unison when Taylor caught that bases-loaded, deep fly ball with his back to the wall. One more foot on that ball and yes, Roberts would have turned to McCarthy. Brad Peacock has been absolutely dominant in relief. The right-hander pitched a third consecutive scoreless inning, striking out Corey Seager, getting Justin Turner to pop out to the catcher, and ending it with a strikeout of Cody Bellinger. It has been a rough game for Bellinger offensively, as the rookie first baseman has four strikeouts in four at-bats. Waldstein: I’ve been expounding a lot on the Dodgers bullpen situation, and meanwhile Brad Peacock has thrown 2 2/3 scoreless innings and is really doing some important work out of the Houston bullpen. What else would you expect from a guy who went 13-2 in the regular season? Well, the Yankees and Red Sox knocked him around pretty hard in the previous two rounds of the playoffs, but his stuff has been effective against the Dodgers. He may not be available for Game 4. Carlos Correa got a two-out single, but Ross Stripling was otherwise flawless in a scoreless inning, getting a flyout, a strikeout and a groundout. The Astros are three outs away from a two games to one lead in the series. Brad Peacock was back out for the ninth inning and the reliever completed a great performance. He ended up earning the save after throwing 3 1/3 shutout innings, striking out four and holding off the Dodgers who had appeared to be chipping away at Houston’s lead against Lance McCullers. In the ninth, he started things off by getting Yasiel Puig to flail at strike three. He got Chase Utley to ground out on a comebacker to the mound, and then got Yasmani Grandal to fly out to end the game.