 The winners of two small-time road races in Richmond, Va., over the weekend have been disqualified — not for any known wrongdoing of their own, but for a link to the kind of doping scandal convulsing the top echelons of sports: Their Russian agent has been accused of providing her runners with performance enhancing drugs. Julius Koskei of Kenya, who won the men’s division of the Richmond Marathon on Saturday, and Firegenet Mandefiro of Ethiopia, the women’s half-marathon winner, were disqualified. The third-place finisher in the women’s half-marathon, Gadise Megersa, was also disqualified. The runners’ agent was Larisa Mikhaylova, a former professional runner from Russia. Under race rules, no runner could enter who was represented by someone who has had two or more athletes suspended for failing drug tests during the last four years. Similar rules are in place at many American races. Mikhaylova managed to register her athletes for the Richmond races without being discovered by using an alias, said Megan Schultz of Sports Backers, which organized the events. Mikhaylova could not be reached for comment. Race organizers became suspicious, Schultz said, when one of the athletes mentioned Mikhaylova’s actual name, rather than the alias. A race official also spotted Mikhaylova in the crowd. “That helped us connect the dots,” Schultz said. The rule had never come into play before, she said. The Richmond race does not conduct drug tests. The Richmond Times-Dispatch first reported the disqualifications. Last year, The Associated Press reported that Mikhaylova had a Kentucky-based group of African runners whom she entered in smaller races, where drug testing was less stringent or nonexistent. She would take a cut of any prize money they made. The runners followed a grueling schedule of numerous events — even marathons — on consecutive weekends. They were quite successful, but also did produce some positive drug tests. The report quoted Lilian Mariita, a Kenyan runner, saying she was regularly given pills that Mikhaylova claimed were multivitamins. Mariita tested positive for a banned substance at races twice in one year. Mikhaylova denied the accusations at the time. Koskei, who crossed the line in 2 hours 19 minutes 44 seconds at the Richmond Marathon, has 19 wins in races since April 2015, The Richmond Times-Dispatch reported. The men’s marathon winner in Richmond earns prize money of $2,500. The women’s half-marathon winner gets $1,000. That prize money will be redistributed to the newly elevated finishers. Temesgen Habtemariam of Ethiopia was declared the marathon winner. Nicole DiMercurio of Blowing Rock, N.C., is the new half-marathon winner.