 GANGNEUNG, South Korea — What must it be like to be 18 and crowned Olympic champion in all the predictions, only to find that someone younger may be better? And what if that someone is a friend and partner you train with every day? Last fall, Evgenia Medvedeva of Russia was a consensus pick to win the women’s figure skating competition at the Winter Games. She was already a two-time world champion, undefeated in two years, increasingly graceful as an artist and technically savvy in her jumping. But skating can be a ruthless sport. And now Medvedeva’s time may have gone before it arrived. She could still win gold on Friday, skating as Tolstoy’s tragic Anna Karenina. She sits in second place, only 1.3 points behind her training partner in Moscow, the 15-year-old Alina Zagitova. It would be premature to count Medvedeva out. But there is something awakening in Zagitova. She defeated Medvedeva last month at the European championships. In Wednesday’s short program, Medvedeva set a world record for points. Ten minutes later, Zagitova broke it. Still, Medvedeva will be a central figure at these Games, gold medal or not. It was Medvedeva who helped to argue — successfully — in December before the International Olympic Committee that not all Russian athletes should be banned from these Games because of systematic doping orchestrated at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia. She laughs often and speaks comfortably with reporters in both Russian and English. Her career path was set at age 11, when Medvedeva competed for the first time at the Russian national championships. “I realized then, this is what I wanted,” she said. “I wanted to be good.” Until Medvedeva lost to Zagitova at the European championships, she had been remarkably consistent, undefeated since November 2015. When she fell on a double axel in a competition in Moscow in October, it was such a rare and unexpected spill that Medvedeva called it a moment of “moral weakness.” “She is such a fierce competitor; I love that,” said Brian Orser, the coach of the two-time Olympic men’s champion Yuzuru Hanyu of Japan. “There’s a very youthful passion about her skating. She’ll find a little story and she embraces it and puts it out there. It’s not over the top, super-sophisticated stuff; it’s stuff for an 18-year-old.” Away from the rink, Medvedeva describes herself as a homebody who finds calm after practice by going to her room in her family’s apartment, closing the door and reading a book or searching the internet. The television stays off; the only noise permitted is the bubbling of her aquarium. “Everything is without sound,” she said. Her mother is her biggest — and most nervous — supporter, so the two of them have a pact. Medvedeva skates and her mother neither attends any competitions nor watches them on television. “Probably our connection is so strong, Mom’s anxiety comes to me even at a distance,” Medvedeva told the Russian newspaper Sport-Express in November. There has been plenty of anxiety lately. In November, Medvedeva revealed that she had a broken bone in her right foot, which was placed in a cast. She missed training time and two important competitions, including the Russian national championships. At the European championships, she appeared somewhat tentative on her jumps and clearly was not yet fully fit. Medvedeva seems recovered now, but things are different. Situations are reversed. Zagitova has caught and perhaps surpassed her. In Zagitova, Medvedeva sees her old self, new to international success, fearless, febrile with possibility. And she has come to realize that the minute she is not at her best, she is vulnerable. In the last couple of years, Medvedeva has made some concessions that teenagers do not often have to. She said she can no longer eat what she wants after 6 p.m. as she could before; if she gains weight, jumping could become more difficult. The rigors of the sport demand that “you have to control yourself anytime,” she said. But some things are beyond her control, like Zagitova’s ascent in a year from world junior champion to Olympic gold-medal contender. The two are friends. Medvedeva has lent skating costumes to Zagitova and Zagitova lists Medvedeva as one of her sporting heroes. On the ice, though, the friendship thins into rivalry, as it will again on Friday. “This is sport. This is war,” Medvedeva said. “We must show our best, no matter if you are nervous or not. When you take the ice you are alone. Yes, your friend is competing here, but you must fight.” If she wins a gold medal on Friday, Medvedeva would become a candidate to carry Russia’s flag at Sunday’s closing ceremony, should the I.O.C. permit its appearance as is being considered. Surely, it would be gratifying for her after she campaigned for Russian athletes to be able to compete in these Games. But she would not talk publicly about any medal before it is won. “I would like to be happy with my performance and feel calm inside,” she said.