 Fox Sports teamed up with a South American marketing firm to send millions of dollars in bribes to high-ranking soccer officials in exchange for lucrative broadcasting rights to major tournaments, the firm’s former chief executive testified Tuesday at the FIFA corruption trial. Alejandro Burzaco, the former chief executive of the firm based in Argentina, testified that Fox and other broadcasters were involved in a scheme to pay bribes — concealed by using offshore side entities and sham contracts — that secured rights for the Copa América and other events. As evidence of the scheme, prosecutors at the trial at a federal courthouse in Brooklyn produced a 2008 agreement for the partnership to pay $3.7 million to a holding company in Turks and Caicos that was said to be a conduit for the bribes. The prosecutors said it was signed by a former Fox executive. Asked whom he kept informed about the bribe arrangements, Burzaco said: “Fox Pan American Sports. Fox Sports.” Through the bribes, the network “gained leverage and rights to broadcast its signal to Argentina” and other parts of the world, he added. Fox Sports denied any involvement in bribery in a statement issued late Tuesday. The statement said Burzaco’s company was a subsidiary of Fox Pan American Sports, which at the time was under the control of a private-equity firm. “Any suggestion that Fox Sports knew of or approved of any bribes is emphatically false,” the statement said. “Fox Sports had no operational control of the entity with Burzaco ran.” Burzaco said other media companies, including Traffic, Televisa, Media Pro, TV Globo and Full Play Argentina, had all paid bribes for soccer rights as well. In a statement, Globo vehemently denied making bribes and said it was willing to cooperate with United States authorities. The testimony came on the second day of the  trial of three former South American soccer officials accused of taking bribes in a sprawling corruption investigation of FIFA, the sport’s governing body. Burzaco, the former head of Torneos and Competencias who has pleaded guilty to racketeering conspiracy and other charges, has emerged as a key witness against José Maria Marin, Manuel Burga and Juan Ángel Napout. The former officials, who have pleaded not guilty, are the first to face trial in the investigation. They are accused of taking part in a scheme spanning 24 years and involving at least $150 million in bribes. More than 40 other officials have pleaded guilty in hopes of receiving reduced sentences.