 As he witnessed the greatest victory in the history of his only major league team, Jeff Bagwell wore a white cap emblazoned with a white four-leaf clover. It was subtle enough to miss, but appropriate when cheering for a franchise never known for good luck. Finally, at the end of their 56th season, the Houston Astros are World Series champions. They began as the expansion Colt .45s in 1962. In all the years since, only two other franchises that existed then, the Cleveland Indians and the Washington Senators (ancestors of the Texas Rangers), had failed to wear the crown. “Nobody wanted us to win this whole thing,” Bagwell said on the field at Dodger Stadium on Wednesday after the Astros’ 5-1 victory in Game 7. “Everybody wanted the other teams, the big teams. We beat the Red Sox, Yankees and Dodgers. That’s pretty strong.” Strong was a theme for the Astros, who wore the word on a patch stitched over their hearts, symbolizing their mission to uplift fans devastated in August by Hurricane Harvey. They delivered the city its first major sports title since the Houston Rockets won the N.B.A. finals in 1995. That Bagwell would volunteer an us-against-the-world viewpoint to frame this victory says a lot about the team’s history. The Astros have usually played outside the spotlight, and stumbled in their chances to seize it. A few of the current players — Jose Altuve, Marwin Gonzalez and Dallas Keuchel — endured at least parts of the three consecutive 100-loss seasons from 2011 to 2013. But Bagwell, the Astros’ career leader in home runs, lived through a different kind of pain. He and Craig Biggio, another Hall of Famer who spent his full career with Houston, finished just one season in last place. They were mostly good, but never good enough. Bagwell and Biggio reached the playoffs six times together but advanced to the World Series only in their final trip, in 2005, when they were swept by the Chicago White Sox. Astros fans get a daily reminder of that loss in the team’s television analyst, Geoff Blum, who hit a 14th-inning homer at Minute Maid Park to win Game 3 for Chicago. Blum played only 33 career games for the White Sox and 580 for the Astros. Now, at last, his viewers might forgive him for his fling with an enemy. “Please, finally!” Blum shouted in the clubhouse celebration on Wednesday night. “Although it’s going to be weird to see those two rings side by side.” When the Astros earned their ring in Game 7, they wore orange jerseys for the first time in the World Series. That look is not as distinctive as their famous rainbow jerseys — worn from 1975 through 1986 and on throwback nights today — but orange is a part of their identity. In the team’s first logo, orange smoke from a pistol formed the letter C in Colts. They were 64-96 in their inaugural season — far ahead of their hapless expansion brothers, the Mets — and within a few years they had budding stars like Rusty Staub and Joe Morgan. Alas, the Astros lost most of Morgan’s prime after a trade for the slugger Lee May. When Morgan returned as a free agent, in 1980, the Astros lost an excruciating National League Championship Series to Philadelphia despite leading the decisive finale by three runs with Nolan Ryan on the mound. Six years later, they felt the sting of another N.L.C.S. loss, this time to the Mets, again despite a three-run lead in the final game. Both heartbreakers took place at the Astrodome. “It’s not easy to do,” said Biggio, who played two decades with the Astros through 2007. “What did we have, the third-longest drought or whatever it was for the World Series? They’re hard to get, and they’re special to get.” The Astros chased a ring in so many different ways. They made early forays to the Dominican Republic for Cesar Cedeño, and to Venezuela for several high-impact prospects like Bobby Abreu, Freddy Garcia and Johan Santana — who mostly thrived elsewhere. They had a habit of luring Texas-bred aces through free agency, like Ryan, Doug Drabek, Roger Clemens and Andy Pettitte. They made shrewd trades for Bagwell and others, and drafted future stars like J. R. Richard, Lance Berkman and Biggio. None of it led to a title, and by 2012, Jim Crane’s first full season as owner, the team had the worst record in the majors. George Springer was a top prospect, but Altuve and Keuchel were not highly regarded around the game. Crane revived orange as part of the Astros’ color palate when the franchise moved to the American League in 2013, but otherwise looked forward, not back. “We came in on the 50th anniversary, so we got a lot of bang out of that,” Crane said in an interview at his office in the summer of 2012. “But really we can put our own mark on it next year. We’re going to do that. We’re going to change the uniform, we’re going to remodel the stadium a little bit, freshen it up and create some new spaces.” Crane did not want to shift leagues, he said. But baseball required it as a condition of the sale, to even the leagues at 15 teams apiece. “People say, ‘Are you mad about it?’” Crane said then. “Not really. If we’re going to win a World Series, we got to beat everybody.” They have done that now, largely with an approach that leans heavily on analytics under General Manager Jeff Luhnow. On the field after Game 7, Crane explained that he had learned to value analytics after studying several franchises while trying to buy a team. “I could see some of the stuff they were doing that we weren’t doing,” he said. “And then I said, ‘You know, to really get good, we’ve got to challenge that and go a step further.’ So we allowed Jeff to do some of those things, and we’re still doing it and hope to build the organization to an even stronger position.” Luhnow had made his mark in the last decade by finding amateur talent for the St. Louis Cardinals, leaving a business career for an industry that still apologizes, in some corners, for relying on numbers. After Game 7, the Astros’ pitching coach, Brent Strom, said the team had targeted Charlie Morton — the surprise winner that night — partly because of the appealing spin rate of his pitches. The Astros helped Morton become the best version of himself through data that showed he should throw more curves and four-seam fastballs, and fewer sinkers. It was sound reasoning. Yet in the middle of his explanation, Strom added, almost reflexively, “I hate to say this.” Why? “Because people make fun of us all the time on this stuff,” he said. “We really believe in this stuff. It plays. It’s fact.” Luhnow did more than rely on analytics. Like the Chicago Cubs’ Theo Epstein, who also took over his team’s baseball operations before the 2012 season, Luhnow recognized the incentives for losing baked into what was then a new collective bargaining agreement. The worst teams would have much more money to spend on amateur talent. A few years of struggle could lead to many years of success. “Not every plan makes sense for every team,” Luhnow said. “But where we started, with the worst team in baseball and one of the worst farm systems in baseball, we really had no choice. We had to focus on developing our own and when the time is right, adding to it.” The Cubs added veterans like Jon Lester, John Lackey and Jason Heyward to help their young core win a title. The Astros brought in Brian McCann, Carlos Beltran, Josh Reddick and Justin Verlander, among others, to complement Altuve, Springer, Keuchel, Carlos Correa and Alex Bregman. Their success may strengthen other teams’ conviction that the best model to win is by tearing down to build up. Then again, teams have seen value in rebuilding, at certain times, for years. Luhnow does not believe he has found a foolproof method of team building. “There are a hundred different formulas to winning a championship,” he said. “The Giants had their own formula; they won three championships. The Cardinals had a formula, the Red Sox had a formula, the Yankees had a formula. You can’t copy what another team does. You have to do it based on the players that you have, the revenue that you have, the payroll that you have, the players you have access to. We did it for us, and it worked.” Only four players on the World Series roster — Beltran, Cameron Maybin, Luke Gregerson and Francisco Liriano — are eligible for free agency. They accounted for six at-bats and one and two-thirds innings across the seven games. The Astros could be back for more. But after waiting so long for one championship, the man who played more games than anyone else in franchise history was not thinking too far ahead. “Everybody’s coming back for next year, and I’m sure Jeff will take a look at that and see whatever we need — but right now, who cares about that?” Biggio said after Game 7. “That trophy’s going to get on the plane and we’re going to go home and have a good time.”