 In Dallas Keuchel’s three command performances against the Yankees, Masahiro Tanaka played the role of the noble loser. He pitched fairly well in all three games, but each time he was outperformed by Keuchel, his Houston Astros counterpart. There was the wild-card game in 2015. There was also opening day in 2016, and finally Game 1 of the American League Championship Series in Houston last week. Act IV of their three-year mini-drama played out in Game 5 at Yankee Stadium on Wednesday, and it appeared as though Tanaka had experienced enough of pitching well and losing. In one of the biggest performances of his career, Tanaka finally beat Keuchel, and did it in a big game. “I think he almost had a chip on his shoulder,” said fellow pitcher Adam Warren, Tanaka’s teammate since 2014. “He pitched well in those games but hadn’t come out on top. I think it’s almost to the point now where he just took it to a different level.” Using all his pitches to great effect, particularly his slider and split-fingered fastball, Tanaka powered and spun his way through the Astros’ lineup, scattering three hits and striking out eight. The Yankees’ offense also finally broke through against Keuchel for a 5-0 victory, giving them a three-games-to-two lead in the series. In the three previous matchups between Tanaka and Keuchel, Tanaka had allowed six runs over 16⅔ innings for a 4.86 earned run average Keuchel had a 0.90 E.R.A., and the Yankees’ frustration quotient was off the grid. Seeing his team score four runs against Keuchel before he left the mound was something Tanaka had never witnessed before, and he liked every bit of it. “It was really fun to watch that,” he said through an interpreter. The Astros received a master class in deception and guile. Taking advantage of some overanxious Houston hitters, Tanaka attacked early in the pitch counts and then taunted them with slippery offerings that dipped low and skirted wide of their bats. When they did make contact, it was often just a ground ball; he recorded nine ground-ball outs, including one that came after an error by Todd Frazier on another ground ball. “He keeps the ball off the middle of the plate,” George Springer, the Astros’ leadoff hitter, said. “Everything is on the edge. He does a good job of making a ball look like a strike and a strike look like a ball.” It was Tanaka’s second critical performance of the postseason. He held the Cleveland Indians to three hits over seven innings in the Yankees’ 1-0 win in Game 3 of the division series. In that game, as well as in Wednesday’s start, Tanaka showed more of the emotion and exuberance that he often showed while pitching in postseason games in Japan. Tanaka has shown big-game poise before. In 2013, he threw 160 pitches in Game 6 of the Japan Series, a loss to the Yomiuri Giants, and then threw 15 more to earn the save in Game 7. On Wednesday, 103 crisp pitches were enough to navigate seven innings. “You see him out there talking to himself, he does all this crazy stuff, and the next thing you know the ball just disappears on batters,” Frazier said. “What a performance.” He went 13-12 in the regular season with a 4.74 E.R.A., but was baffling and inconsistent at times, especially in the first half. Joe Girardi, the Yankees manager, affirmed that Tanaka had elevated his level of pitching in the postseason, noting that it began with Tanaka’s final start of the regular season when he threw seven scoreless innings against the Toronto Blue Jays. “He’s raised it as high as I’ve seen in the playoffs and the last start of the season,” Girardi said. It is within the realm of possibility that this was Tanaka’s last start at Yankee Stadium. He can opt out of his contract at the end of the season to become a free agent — but that is for another day. On Wednesday, with the full voice of 49,000 or so Yankee fans behind him, Tanaka saved his most beguiling pitches for the most critical moments. He induced a ground ball from Carlos Correa after Frazier’s error, and in the second inning he stranded Yulieski Gurriel at third base after he had doubled and moved over on a ground out by Alex Bregman. Gurriel watched helplessly from third as Carlos Beltran and Marwin Gonzalez grounded out. The Astros also managed to get a runner to second base in the third inning, but Tanaka induced two more ground balls, from the struggling Josh Reddick and Jose Altuve, to end that threat, as well. In the fourth, a wild pitch helped Gonzalez get to second with one out, but Tanaka struck out Springer and Reddick. After playing the foil to Keuchel’s heroics in their previous three meetings, Tanaka finally did to the Astros what Keuchel had done to the Yankees. “I feel like I’m just keeping it really simple,” he said. “You go out there and fight and you empty the tank. I think I’m just really clear about what I need to do out there and I’m just executing that.”