 Marina Stefanoni had barely stepped off the court when she was besieged by autograph seekers. One wanted her to sign a giant replica of a squash ball while another handed her a marker and his hand for her to write on. Stefanoni had just lost her opening-round match at the Tournament of Champions, a $300,000 professional event played at Grand Central Terminal every January. But that did not matter to the gaggle of supporters who suffocated her with hugs and pieces of paper to sign. That’s because, for the most part, they were Stefanoni’s fellow junior squash players and her high school friends from Darien, Conn. Just 15, Stefanoni is a rare squash phenom. Unlike prodigies in tennis, like Tracy Austin, Monica Seles, Jennifer Capriati and Martina Hingis, teenagers in squash do not turn pro, partly because there is not a financial incentive to do so. But Stefanoni is advanced for her years. In 2013, barely a year after she began playing squash, she won the national girls’ under-11 title. Three years later, after winning back-to-back under-13 national championships, she became, at 13, the youngest winner of the under-19 national title, which she successfully defended last year. Stefanoni has won the United States Junior Open four times, including in the under-19 division in December. She has been ranked No. 1 in the under-19 division since March 2016, when she was just 13. She was granted a wild card to play in the Tournament of Champions, becoming the youngest competitor ever in the field. “As soon as Marina came up through the pipeline, you knew there was something special about her,” said the United States national team coach, Paul Assaiante, who has also coached Trinity College in Hartford to 15 national championships and a staggering 252-match win streak. “Four years ago, she was running five-minute miles. And you could always see her zest for the game. During the breaks between games, you’d see this little peanut jumping on a court somewhere just to hit for two minutes.” Stefanoni has captured several international junior titles and was a member of the national team at the world junior championships in New Zealand. She lost in the quarterfinals in individual play but won all five of her matches in the team event. This weekend, she will be playing in the United States women’s championships in Philadelphia and then heads to Harvard for the national junior championships on March 16. “She doesn’t get tired and she has a real poker face,” said fifth-ranked Nouran Gohar of Egypt, who beat Stefanoni in three close games in New York. “She doesn’t show any emotions at all, whether she’s winning or losing.” “Yeah, some people say I look like a robot,” Stefanoni replied with a wry chuckle. “I don’t feel that way.” At Darien High School on a recent afternoon, there was little to distinguish Stefanoni from her freshman classmates except for the U.S.A. Squash tank top that was mostly hidden beneath her fleece jacket. Stefanoni is a top student as well as a top athlete. But missing class to play tournaments was easier before she reached high school. “I’m amazed that given the number of days she misses, she still excels in the classroom,” said Susan Ruegger, who is teaching Stefanoni about lipids in freshman biology. “But what’s more amazing is how humble she is. I had no idea, until I read it in the local paper, just how good a squash player she is.” Academic and athletic excellence are commonplace in the Stefanoni household. Marina’s parents, Peggy and Chris, met in a Renaissance art class at Harvard when she was a freshman and he a senior. Chris was a sprinter and javelin thrower, as well as a rugby player, and Peggy, who grew up in Guatemala, was, by her own admission, a mediocre squash player. Chris took up the game recreationally while at Harvard Business School and now serves as Marina’s primary coach. The Stefanonis have four other children: Enzo, 20, a pitcher on the Harvard baseball team who set the New York state record for most high school pitching wins, 43, while at Rye Country Day School; Aldo, 16, also a standout pitcher; Lucie, 13, a squash player who won the girls’ under-13 national title in 2016 and ’17 and is ranked No. 1 in the girls’ under-15 division; and Nico, 12, an aspiring baseball pitcher. The family’s devotion to sports is not without controversy. Chris, a real estate developer, has been accused of being a heavy-handed father-coach. While Marina played her match at the Tournament of Champions, her father sat on the edge of his seat, bouncing his head along to every movement his daughter made. Between games, he stood courtside, gesticulating with his hands while Marina stoically listened. She did not seem bothered by anything he said or did. Several years ago, the Stefanonis were embroiled in a lawsuit in Darien, one of the wealthiest towns in the country, when they tried to build a series of affordable housing units on their property. Neighbors blocked the proposal. Soon after, Aldo, then 9, was demoted from the top-tier Little League baseball team on which he played. His parents claimed the move was in retaliation for the housing lawsuit and sued again. During one particular court confrontation, Chris was arrested and accused of breaching the peace. The biggest reason that Marina plays squash is because of the angst that team sports have caused her family. When Marina was 9, she scored 34 goals in one soccer game, she and her mother said. Her coaches told her to stop scoring and give the other players a chance. Instead, she quit soccer and turned to squash. Not surprisingly, her favorite method of training is called “soloing” in which she secludes herself on a court for hours in order to perfect her nicks (little drop shots into the front corner), boasts (angled shots that hit the side wall and then the front wall) and rails, or rallies down each side wall. “Soloing really helps a lot,” Stefanoni said just before she began an afternoon training session at Chelsea Piers in nearby Stamford. “If you can go for long periods of time hitting the same drops, lobs, rails and boasts, then you should be able to keep your focus for an entire match.” Her mother, Peggy, said: “We’ve always taught our kids to be self-sufficient and to turn negatives into positives. Marina is great at that. When I talk to her, I really feel like I’m speaking with a peer. She’s just that mature.” Marina’s squash goal is to win the senior world championships and play in the Olympics if squash gains entrance to the Games. Right now, with little left to conquer in the junior game, she is transitioning to playing more pro tournaments. She turned down the $1,888 in prize money she earned at the Tournament of Champions because she is adamant about going to college, though she is not yet set on joining the family legacy at Harvard. “Right now, my game is changing,” Stefanoni said before she put herself through a grueling, trainer-assisted combat session with a medicine ball. “In juniors, you can go for shots from the backcourt and run to get out of situations. The pros are much more disciplined. They’re stronger and more physical. But in the end, it’s all about competing. And I love to compete.”