 TAMPA, Fla. — When Phil Nevin was managing the Arizona Diamondbacks’ Class AAA team in Reno, Nev., in 2015, Brandon Drury spent so much time in the batting cages one day that the coaches kicked him out and told him to go home. They were not quite sure if he followed their directive. “There was a rumor the next day that he went down to the Family Fun Center and was putting quarters in the cages there,” Nevin said. The Yankees had tried to trade for Drury, whom they acquired Tuesday in a three-way trade, through three Diamondbacks general managers, but nobody in the Yankees’ organization knows him better than Nevin, the team’s new third-base coach. Drury will compete for the starting job at third base with Miguel Andujar, a 22-year-old prospect who the Yankees believe will develop into a star — but perhaps not this year. “Intensity,” Nevin said when asked what quality stood out about his few months working with Drury. “He’ll fit right into the room.” Drury flew here from Arizona on Wednesday, met Nevin for dinner that night — the coach picked up the tab — and went through workouts for the first time with his new teammates on Thursday, taking ground balls and batting practice. When he met with reporters on Thursday, he remarked several times that he was “pumped” about the trade. The Yankees were his favorite team growing up in Grants Pass, Ore., about an hour north of the California border, and he will have a chance to compete for a championship after getting a taste of the playoffs last season with the Diamondbacks. But most enticing is a return to third base — his natural position, but one that he played only once last season as the Diamondbacks’ Jake Lamb emerged as an All-Star at third. General Manager Brian Cashman, who gave up two prospects in the deal — second baseman Nick Solak went to Tampa Bay and pitcher Chris Widener to Arizona — relayed his scouts’ consensus when he spoke of Drury on Wednesday: Even though Drury played well the last two seasons in Arizona — he hit .275 with 29 homers and a .775 on-base-plus-slugging percentage — he was capable of more production. As it turns out, Drury, 25, feels the same way. “I don’t feel like I’ve done anything like what I’m capable of the last couple years,” said Drury, who is 6-foot-2, 210 pounds and hits right-handed. “They’ve both been kind of a grind. The numbers are O.K., I would say. But I don’t think that those last two seasons is half the player I am. I truly believe that. But then I have to go out and do it. That’s what I’m here for.” Drury’s reason for optimism is the changes he made to his swing over the winter. He drove from his off-season home in Las Vegas to the Los Angeles area about six times to work with the hitting coaches Craig Wallenbrock, Tim Laker and Robert Van Scoyoc, who have transformed the swings — and careers — of Boston’s J. D. Martinez, his former teammate in Arizona, and the Los Angeles Dodgers’ Chris Taylor. The idea: to turn some of the 37 doubles he hit last season — more than any Yankee, despite having only 445 at-bats — into home runs. “I’ll take a line drive up the middle all day,” Drury said. “But when I’m getting a 3-1 fastball or looking for a certain pitch, I don’t want that to be what I’m settling for. I want to drive the ball and be able to hit some home runs.” The changes have resulted in Drury’s getting the bat head into the hitting zone early and carrying it through longer so that he has greater margin for error, and also changing the plane of his swing, so it has an upward tilt, which he hopes will result in more fly balls that carry over the fence. “I didn’t understand how to hit certain pitches that I was trying to get,” Drury said. “I was just trying to get big with my swing, and that doesn’t work. It’s got to be your natural swing.”