 BIRMINGHAM, England — Track and field’s world governing body said Tuesday that Russia’s athletics federation is risking permanent expulsion if it does not begin complying with a series of two-year-old antidoping requirements the country has shown little inclination to fulfill. Fed up with what he described as foot-dragging by Russia’s sports officials in the wake of revelations about its state-sponsored doping program, Sebastian Coe, the president of the International Association of Athletics Federations, said the organization will meet in July to consider a new set of punishments. Those sanctions could include ending the practice of allowing Russian athletes to compete as neutrals if they can prove they have not used performance enhancing drugs, or expelling Russia’s track and field federation from the I.A.A.F. As part of a pathway to reintegration, Russia had agreed to a series of conditions with the I.A.A.F. Sports officials were supposed to acknowledge that the doping scheme that lasted at least from 2008-2015 was part of a systemic effort to corrupt sports. They have not done so. Russia has also failed to identify athletes in a database of individuals suspected of using performance enhancing drugs. “There is no ambiguity about the criteria, and the criteria was agreed,” Coe, a former two-time Olympic gold medal-winning runner, told reporters in Birmingham, England, where the world indoor championships are currently taking place. “We want the country and their athletes back, but we want the world to be in a position to trust.” Russia’s athletics officials were not immediately available for comment. Tuesday’s announcement followed a meeting of the I.A.A.F. executive board. It stands in stark contrast to the International Olympic Committee’s decision last month to restore Russia to full membership status less than three months after issuing its own suspension. The I.A.A.F has banned Russia since 2015, when details of widespread doping in the country first emerged. The controversy over Russian doping has tainted the results of scores at international track meets during the past decade and has even threatened to damage Coe’s reputation. The hard-line stance from the rulers of global athletics emerged just a day after British lawmakers accused Coe of misleading a parliamentary investigation about when he first became aware of a scheme to extort Russian athletes who had failed drug tests. Coe’s predecessor, Lamine Diack was a part of that scheme. A report the committee issued Monday stated that Coe received an email about the scandal from another former athlete months earlier. Coe said he had not been aware of specific allegations of the extortion scheme before the scandal was first publicly exposed by a German television documentary in December 2014. At that time he was a vice president of I.A.A.F. under Diack. However, the report details telephone and email contact between Coe and Dave Bedford, also a former middle-distance runner and the longtime director of the London Marathon. Bedford called Coe in August 2014 to tell him that the Russian athlete Liliya Shobukhova had been forced to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars to cover up a failed drug test that would have kept her out of the 2012 London Olympics. Reacting to the report, Coe repeated his longstanding claim that he simply passed on the email to track and field’s ethics body without checking its contents. On Tuesday he said the I.A.A.F. would not wait indefinitely for Russia to come into compliance. “It is in nobody’s interest to be sitting here in no man’s land,” he said. If the organization expels Russia, its officials would play no part in international track and field and its athletes would not be allowed to compete. At the Rio de Janeiro Games in 2016, the first Olympics since details of the Russian scandal first emerged, just one Russian was cleared to participate as a neutral by the I.A.A.F. In contrast, the I.O.C. last month allowed more than 160 Russians to compete as neutrals at the Pyeongchang Olympics, where two Russians accounted for half of the failed drugs tests. The I.O.C. welcomed Russia back into the fold just three days after the Games ended.