 The Cleveland Browns added two offensive players high in the second round of the N.F.L. draft on Friday night as potential support for Baker Mayfield, the Oklahoma quarterback they took with the top overall pick in Thursday’s first round. With the first pick of the second round, the Browns took Austin Corbett, an offensive lineman from Nevada, and then chose Nick Chubb, a running back from Georgia, with the round’s third pick. In between, the Giants got Will Hernandez, a guard from Texas-El Paso. [Read our coverage of the first round here.] Corbett, an unusually versatile lineman, could broadly be seen as addressing a position of need, as the Browns lost an all-around iron man, tackle Joe Thomas, to retirement after last season. Chubb was seen as the best remaining running back, especially after his backfield mate at Georgia, Sony Michel, was taken 31st on Thursday night by the New England Patriots. The Giants’ pick appeared to go in tandem with its selection Thursday night of Penn State running back Saquon Barkley at No. 2 over all. Compared with tackle and center, the guard position is more significant in establishing a running game. So the additions of a top-flight rusher and a rookie run-blocker seem to signal a renewed commitment to the ground game to complement the 37-year-old Eli Manning at quarterback. The Giants also added Lorenzo Carter, a Georgia linebacker, with the second pick of the third round, and they took B.J. Hill, a North Carolina State defensive tackle, three picks later. The Jets, who took Southern Cal quarterback Sam Darnold at No. 3 in the first round, did not have a pick in the second. They chose Nathan Shepherd, a defensive tackle from Fort Hays State, with their lone third-round pick. The Browns got the 33rd overall pick by virtue of finishing last season with the N.F.L.’s worst record — they were 0-16 — and the 35th pick through a past trade. They also had the No. 4 pick over all, which they used to add cornerback Denzel Ward out of Ohio State. The second round was scattered with several other notable picks: At 37th over all, the Indianapolis Colts took Auburn’s Braden Smith, their second offensive lineman of the draft, reflecting the need to keep their ailing quarterback, Andrew Luck, protected in the pocket. The Tennessee Titans took Harold Landry of Boston College, a linebacker, at 42nd over all. Along with Alabama’s Rashaan Evans, who was picked 22nd Thursday night, the Titans took two linebackers — which is the same position the first-year head coach Mike Vrabel played in the N.F.L., most notably for the Patriots. After trading the 32nd overall pick on Thursday night to the Baltimore Ravens, who used it on Louisville quarterback Lamar Jackson, the Philadelphia Eagles traded up to select South Dakota State tight end Dallas Goedert. With the second round’s 15th pick, the Arizona Cardinals took Texas A&amp;M wide receiver Christian Kirk. A native of the Phoenix area, Kirk went lower than many expected. He is seen as a complement to, and perhaps an eventual successor to, Larry Fitzgerald, the heart of the Cardinals franchise. It is not clear whether Kirk will catch his first pass from Josh Rosen, the U.C.L.A. quarterback whom the Cardinals picked 10th over all on Thursday, or from the veteran Sam Bradford. Derrius Guice, the Louisiana State running back considered one of the biggest talents at his position, fell to nearly the end of the second round, the 59th overall pick, partly because of reports about unspecified off-field problems. The Washington Redskins decided to take a chance on him. The final pick of the second round was slated to go to the Browns, but they traded it to the Colts, who picked Tyquan Lewis, a defensive end from Ohio State. It was the Colts’ fifth pick of the first two rounds — all but one of which was an offensive or defensive lineman. The Browns, of course, are the story of this draft. They picked first over all on Thursday night for the second year in a row, and took Mayfield, the most recent Heisman Trophy winner and one of four quarterbacks to go in the first 10th picks, and fourth over all, adding Ward. Browns Coach Hue Jackson said Thursday that Tyrod Taylor, the quarterback acquired in a trade with the Buffalo Bills, would be the presumptive starter this season. The Browns are used to picking high, which illustrates a larger point about the franchise: It has a poor track record of converting enviable draft positions into star players. Recent first-round busts include running back Trent Richardson and quarterbacks Brady Quinn, Brandon Weeden and Johnny Manziel. It helps explain why the Browns have finished with just one winning record since the 2002 season, which was the last time they made the playoffs. Retired veterans announced picks for their former teams after accompanying Commissioner Roger Goodell to the podium at the Dallas Cowboys’ stadium in Arlington, Tex., partly neutralizing the boos that typically greet the commissioner. The Hall of Fame running back Jim Brown announced Cleveland’s second-round picks. Proclaiming the Tennessee Titans’ selection, quarterback Vince Young referred to the college team he led to a national championship after the 2005 season, telling the Texas crowd: “Hook ’em, Horns.” The Giants’ selection was announced by defensive end Justin Tuck, who seemed to relish playing the heel to the hometown crowd, bathing in boos delivered by Cowboys fans as he referred to the rival Giants as “the greatest franchise in all of sports.” The former Patriots receiver Deion Branch cupped his hand to his ear, pro wrestling style, during his turn. But their performances were surpassed by kicker David Akers, who announced the second-round pick for the Philadelphia Eagles, the defending Super Bowl champions and another archrival of the Cowboys. “Hey Dallas,” he yelled. “The last time you were in the Super Bowl, these draft picks weren’t born!” 33. Cleveland Browns: Austin Corbett, G, Nevada 34. Giants: Will Hernandez, G, Texas-El Paso 35. Cleveland Browns: Nick Chubb, RB, Georgia 36. Indianapolis Colts: Darius Leonard, LB, South Carolina State 37. Indianapolis Colts: Braden Smith, G, Auburn 38. Tampa Bay Buccaneers: Ronald Jones II, RB, Southern California 39. Chicago Bears: James Daniels, C, Iowa 40. Denver Broncos: Courtland Sutton, WR, Southern Methodist 41. Tennessee Titans: Harold Landry, LB, Boston College 42. Miami Dolphins: Mike Gesicki, TE, Penn State 43. Detroit Lions: Kerryon Johnson, RB, Auburn 44. San Francisco: Dante Pettis, WR, Washington 45. Green Bay Packers: Josh Jackson, CB, Iowa 46. Kansas City Chiefs: Breeland Speaks, LB, Mississippi 47. Arizona Cardinals: Christian Kirk, WR, Texas A&amp;M 48. Los Angeles Chargers: Uchenna Nwosu, LB, Southern California 49. Philadelphia Eagles: Dallas Goedert, TE, South Dakota State 50. Dallas Cowboys: Connor Williams, G, Texas 51. Chicago Bears: Anthony Miller, WR, Memphis 52. Indianapolis Colts: Kemoko Turay, LB, Rutgers 53. Tampa Bay Buccaneers: M.J. Stewart, CB, North Carolina 54. Cincinnati Bengals: Jessie Bates III, S, Wake Forest 55. Carolina Panthers: Donte Jackson, CB, Louisiana State 56. New England Patriots: Duke Dawson, CB, Florida 57. Oakland Raiders: P.J. Hall, DT, Sam Houston State 58. Atlanta Falcons: Isaiah Oliver, CB, Colorado 59. Washington Redskins: Derrius Guice, RB, Louisiana State 60. Pittsburgh Steelers: James Washington, WR, Oklahoma State 61. Jacksonville Jaguars: D.J. Chark, WR, Louisiana State 62. Minnesota Vikings: Brian O’Neill, OT, Pittsburgh 63. Tampa Bay Buccaneers: Carlton Davis, CB, Auburn 64. Indianapolis Colts: Tyquan Lewis, DE, Ohio State 65. Oakland Raiders: Brandon Parker, OT, North Carolina 66. Giants: Lorenzo Carter, LB, Georgia 67. Cleveland Browns: Chad Thomas, DE, Miami 68. Houston Texans: Justin Reid, S, Stanford 69. Giants: B.J. Hill, DT, North Carolina State 70. San Francisco 49ers: Fred Warner, LB, Brigham Young 71. Denver Broncos: Royce Freeman, RB, Oregon 72. Jets: Nathan Shepherd, DT, Fort Hays State 73. Miami Dolphins: Jerome Baker, LB, Ohio State 74. Washington Redskins: Geron Christian, OT, Louisville 75. Kansas City Chiefs: Derrick Nnadi, DT, Florida State 76. Pittsburgh Steelers: Mason Rudolph, QB, Oklahoma State 77. Cincinnati Bengals: Sam Hubbard, DE, Ohio State 78. Cincinnati Bengals: Malik Jefferson, LB, Texas 79. Seattle Seahawks: Rasheem Green, DE, Southern California 80. Houston Texans: Martinas Rankin, C, Mississippi State 81. Dallas Cowboys: Michael Gallup, WR, Colorado State 82. Detroit Lions: Tracy Walker, S, Louisiana-Lafayette 83. Baltimore Ravens: Orlando Brown, OT, Oklahoma 84. Los Angeles Chargers: Justin Jones, DT, North Carolina State 85. Carolina Panthers: Rashaan Gaulden, CB, Tennessee 86. Baltimore Ravens: Mark Andrews, TE, Oklahoma 87. Oakland Raiders: Arden Key, LB, Louisiana State 88. Green Bay Packers: Oren Burks, LB, Vanderbilt 89. Los Angeles Rams: Joseph Noteboom, OT, Texas Christian 90. Atlanta Falcons: Deadrin Senat, DT, South Florida 91. New Orleans Saints: Tre’Quan Smith, WR, Central Florida 92. Pittsburgh Steelers: Chukwuma Okorafor, OT, Western Michigan 93. Jacksonville Jaguars: Ronnie Harrison, S, Alabama 94. Tampa Bay Buccaneers: Alex Cappa, OT, Humboldt State 95. San Francisco 49ers: Tarvarius Moore, S, Southern Miss 96. Buffalo Bills: Harrison Phillips, DT, Stanford 97. Arizona Cardinals: Mason Cole, C, Michigan 98. Houston Texans: Jordan Akins, TE, Central Florida 99. Denver Broncos: Isaac Yiadom, CB, Boston College 100. Kansas City Chiefs: Dorian O’Daniel, LB, Clemson.