 Tampa Bay quarterback Jameis Winston was outstanding on Monday night against Atlanta. He completed 27 of 35 passes for 299 yards, and had three touchdowns without an interception. His final quarterback rating was a colossal 130.5. “Jameis played a heck of a game, probably played his best game of the season,” Coach Dirk Koetter told reporters. But you may not have noticed because of another, more important, statistic: Falcons 24, Buccaneers 21. The game was a microcosm of Winston’s entire season, his third as the Bucs’ quarterback. He is playing as well as he ever has. His completion percentage, interception percentage, adjusted yards per attempt, and quarterback rating are all at career bests. But because the Bucs are 4-10, and only 2-9 with Winston starting, few outside of Tampa have paid much attention. Winston walked into a tough situation when he was drafted No. 1 overall three seasons ago. The Buccaneers had only two playoff appearances, and no playoff wins, since their Super Bowl title in 2003. The season before his arrival, the team was 2-14 with Josh McCown and Mike Glennon under center. It began to turn around with Winston; he was 6-10 and 9-7 in his first two seasons. But the improvement stopped quickly this year. Winston’s numbers this season are similar to many revered quarterbacks whose teams are much more successful: Matt Ryan (9-5), Ben Roethlisberger (11-3), and Russell Wilson (8-6), to name three. As the leaders of their teams, quarterbacks are often judged as much by their records as their own statistics. Tom Brady and Tony Romo have identical 7.81 career adjusted yards per attempt figures. But their disparity in Super Bowls (5-0) is much more likely to come up in comparisons. Winston’s career is still in its infancy, but his lifetime quarterback rating is 87.3. That is within a point of the ratings of Andrew Luck (43-27), Alex Smith (87-62-1), Otto Graham (57-13-1), and Dan Marino (147-93). Winston’s 17-26 record is going to make it hard for anyone to argue he is close to their class as a passer. Winston’s career rating is also very close to that of Daunte Culpepper, who retired with a team record of just 41-59. So Winston is completing passes, but not winning games this season. Is there an anti-Winston, a passer who is putting up shaky numbers, but leading a winner? Step forward, Joe Flacco. Flacco’s 5.26 adjusted yards per attempt is the second worst of any quarterback with five or more starts (he is ahead of the Browns’ DeShone Kizer). But his fellow Ravens have pulled the team to an 8-6 record and a good shot at the playoffs. Not many Baltimore fans would trade places with Tampa right now.