 In Game 2 of their National League division series against the Arizona Diamondbacks, the Los Angeles Dodgers did not get an especially remarkable performance out of their bullpen. In relief of starter Rich Hill, six pitchers surrendered three runs over five innings. But the game turned out to be memorable in another way. Going into Game 2 of the World Series, it was the only time the Dodgers’ bullpen had surrendered any earned runs this postseason. In Los Angeles’s nine playoff games so far, the bullpen has pitched 30⅔ innings and surrendered just those three earned runs. More amazing, it has given up only 12 hits and two walks in that span. Not coincidentally, the Dodgers are 8-1 in the playoffs. The National League Championship Series was particular sparkling for the relief corps: 17 innings pitched against the Chicago Cubs, four hits, and only one walk. While the Dodgers’ rotation of Clayton Kershaw, Rich Hill, Yu Darvish and Alex Wood has drawn its share of praise, the large crew of relievers has been relatively unheralded until this run of postseason success. Seven have featured so far. Kenley Jansen is the closer, with four saves in the postseason. His WHIP (walks plus hits per inning pitched) is a miserly 0.33, his earned run average a perfect 0.00. Jansen, 30, from Curacao, is an intimidating presence at 6 feet 5 inches and 275 pounds, and he has been an elite closer for the Dodgers for six seasons. But like many of his teammates, he is only now getting to throw in his first World Series. He and his setup man, Brandon Morrow, led the way with eight appearances each in the Dodgers’ nine games. Morrow’s nine and a third innings leads the team. He and Tony Watson are the hold men; Morrow has four and Watson three so far. Kenta Maeda, signed last year from the Hiroshima Carp, has been shifted to the bullpen for the playoffs. He has not given up a hit in five innings and has been credited with two wins. Tony Cingrani, Josh Fields and Ross Stripling round out the group. The Dodgers were a comfortable 14 games up in the N.L. West at the end of July but did not stand pat, bolstering their relief by landing Cingrani from the Reds and Watson from the Pirates. Though the relievers have been impressive, it cannot be too surprising to those who paid attention during the regular season. The bullpen’s E.R.A. was 3.38, the best in the N.L. Jansen finished tied for second in saves behind Tampa Bay’s Alex Colome. His win probability added, a stat that tries to determine how much players contribute to victories, was 5.7, the best of any pitcher in the game. Houston’s relievers were also effective in Game 1 of the Series: Brad Peacock and Chris Devenski did not give up a run. But over all, the Astros’ bullpen has not been as dominant, surrendering nine runs, for example, in the seven-game A.L.C.S. Plenty of fans will tell you that pitching plays an outsize role in the postseason. And ask any Yankee fan about Mariano Rivera to understand just how important a good bullpen can be. With the kind of numbers their relievers are putting up, the Dodgers are holding a big edge as the Series continues.