 Mike D’Antoni has never been shy about experimenting during his N.B.A. coaching career. With the Phoenix Suns, he cultivated the so-called Seven Seconds or Less offense that put the league on its trajectory to today’s pace and space. In Houston — after frustrating stints coaching the Knicks and the Los Angeles Lakers — he hasn’t shifted his philosophy with the Rockets. He has operated with the belief that when it comes to lineups, bigger isn’t necessarily better. This preseason, the formidable Rockets have even dabbled with P. J. Tucker, who stands 6 feet 6 inches, as their center. So it was something to behold when D’Antoni brought his super-small-ball lineup to Madison Square Garden recently to take on the Knicks in an exhibition game. For what he encountered was a Knicks club quite the opposite of his own. Unlike Houston, the Knicks are saturated with big men, even though that runs counter to the prevailing wisdom in the N.B.A., which increasingly emphasizes athleticism and outside shooting over size. The Knicks’ roster, which no longer includes Carmelo Anthony, currently has six players who are listed at 6 feet 10 inches or taller. All are centers, except the 7-foot-3 Kristaps Porzingis, who prefers to play power forward despite his size. It is a lineup contrasted by the best team in the Eastern Conference, the Cleveland Cavaliers, who plan to start Kevin Love, normally a mobile power forward, at center. And many clubs are trying to emulate the Golden State Warriors’ brand of nearly positionless basketball. “The game is changing,” D’Antoni said during his visit to New York. “The game has changed. Offense has changed in the last 10 years radically just because the players have gotten better, they shoot the ball better. Offense has opened up. The 3-point line — everybody shoots now. So offense has changed radically.” It could for the Knicks, too, but it won’t happen immediately. They plan to start Porzingis and will probably have another big man on the court with him a good deal of the time. In that regard, the Knicks can choose from a list that includes the 6-foot-11 Enes Kanter, obtained in the trade that sent Anthony to Oklahoma City; the 6-11 Willy Hernangomez; the 6-10 Kyle O’Quinn; and the 6-11 Joakim Noah — when he returns from a drug suspension that will keep him out for the first 12 games of the season (he received a 20-game penalty but sat out eight games at the end of last season). The Knicks also have Luke Kornet, a 7-foot-1 rookie out of Vanderbilt who is set to spend some of his time playing for their development-league team. Last season, just nine teams had two big men — 6-foot-10 or taller — on the court at once for at least half the game, on average, according to the sports data company Stats LLC. And small-ball lineups outscored traditional ones by 1.2 points per 100 possessions last season, according to research done by the basketball analytics site Nylon Calculus. The fact that the Knicks have so many big men at the moment is not really by design. Kanter was essentially acquired because his sizable contract helped balance out the money involved in the Anthony deal. Noah is in the second season of an expensive four-year contract that the Knicks’ revamped front office — with the new team president Steve Mills and new General Manager Scott Perry — would surely unload if it could. On the other hand, Porzingis and Hernangomez are viewed as part of the future core of the team, but whether the Knicks can cope defensively with both of them on the court together in the current, high-octane N.B.A. is an intriguing question. For now, what is clear is that Anthony is gone, Tim Hardaway Jr. has returned as an expensive free-agent swingman and a lot of tall people are on the roster. And one more thing: The Knicks, in the preseason, did not look good at all. They went 0-5 in their exhibition games and their defense, which had been such a sore spot last season, looked even worse. The Knicks gave up 112.6 points per game and finished 32nd in defensive rating for the preseason. Yes, 32nd in a 30-team league. That’s because their rankings included overseas teams who traveled to the United States to play in some of the preseason games. So the only teams with a worse defense than the Knicks this preseason turned out to be the Shanghai Sharks, Guangzhou Long-Lions, Sydney Kings and Maccabi Haifa. In any case, the preseason is over. On Thursday night, the Knicks will open their regular season in Oklahoma City against none other than Anthony and his two renowned teammates — Paul George and Russell Westbrook. And while the Thunder will be trying to contend for a title, the Knicks will be deploying a small army of big men. Which is fine with Kanter. “It’s good,” he said. “That means we’ve got an advantage. We can rebound better. We can protect the rim better. I think it’s going to work fine.” If it does to any degree, it will be because Porzingis bears the burden of being the star of the team and absorbs being the target of opposing defenses and, just as important, stays healthy. He had a number of physical setbacks during his first two seasons and is already battling a hip injury that forced him to miss the preseason finale. The Knicks also need 19-year-old Frank Ntilikina, their first-round draft pick out of France, to finally get healthy after missing all of the summer league and most of the preseason with knee injuries. He is a 6-foot-5 point guard with enormous potential, but he has yet to gain any real N.B.A. experience. Meanwhile, the Knicks’ coach, Jeff Hornacek, maintains his club will be a transformed team from last season and will play with more pace. And perhaps a healthy Ntilikina and Hardaway and someone like the 6-foot-5 Courtney Lee can help make that happen. If nothing else, the Knicks are no longer obsessed by the triangle offense so beloved by Phil Jackson, the former team president. Finally, there is this: On the first day of training camp, Hornacek assigned the team a book — “Chop Wood Carry Water: How to Fall in Love with the Process of Becoming Great.” He asked the players to read it and had them discuss different chapters each morning. Greatness, of course, is not something that will preoccupy the Knicks this season. Progress is another matter, and how much takes place will be the primary issue. Who will be on the court is another. For now, the Knicks are really tall. What fans want to know is when, if ever, they will be really good.