 LONDON — The London-based soccer agent who handled the world-record transfer of Gareth Bale, a deal that helped make his agency the largest and most influential in Britain, has been in discussions about selling his company. The London-based agent, Jonathan Barnett of the Stellar Group, confirmed the talks after being asked about a prospectus, obtained by The New York Times, that was created by a firm looking to raise funds for a purchase valued at just over $100 million. Barnett had signed a short-term exclusivity agreement with the group, Star Search Ltd., but the sale fell apart after the businessmen failed to raise enough money to complete their purchase. Barnett said that he was not in a hurry to sell the business, but set a price for it by saying that he would consider offers of more than 100 million pounds (about $131 million). “There’s nothing there at the moment,” Barnett said, adding, “If someone offers a ridiculous amount, they’ll be getting the best football agency in the world.” Star Search worked with an advisory firm, Optiva Securities, in the hope of raising 40 million pounds ($52 million) to complete a buyout of the firm Barnett runs with David Manasseh. Since creating Stellar in 1994, Barnett and Manasseh have built it into the biggest athlete representation business in Britain, with more than 600 clients, including Bale but also prominent England players like goalkeeper Joe Hart and midfielder Adam Lallana. Though the proposed sale appears to have failed, the prospectus offered a glimpse at how Stellar has profited from rampant inflation in the market for top soccer talent in the Premier League. Enriched by record television contracts, teams across England have spent unprecedented amounts on player recruitment in recent years. In 2016, the most recent year for which publicly disclosed financial statements are available, Barnett’s agency generated sales of nearly $27 million, almost double the amount from two years earlier. “It’s getting better and better,” Barnett said from the United States, where his company is looking to expand its business, and its client base, by representing  N.F.L. players. News media reports had linked Chinese businesses to a possible takeover of Stellar, but that talk has cooled after the Chinese government began a clampdown on companies’ holding overseas sports assets. Barnett said that he has had five or six approaches about a potential sale in recent months. Bald, bespectacled and now in his 60s, Barnett first rose to national attention for his role in the controversial transfer of the former England national team defender Ashley Cole from Arsenal to its London rival Chelsea in 2006. Arsenal had not given Chelsea permission to talk with Cole when he was pictured with Barnett attending transfer talks with the Chelsea coach at the time, José Mourinho. Barnett was sanctioned for his role. Better headlines followed a decade later when he negotiated Bale’s 2013 move from Tottenham Hotspur to Real Madrid. The $130 million transfer broke the world transfer record, elevated the profile of Barnett’s agency and won him the coveted status as a so-called “super agent” alongside the likes of Cristiano Ronaldo’s manager, Jorge Mendes. Forbes magazine listed Stellar at No. 11 on its most recent list of the world’s most valuable sports agencies, with more than $500 million worth of contracts under management and commissions totaling $53.4 million. According to the document reviewed by The New York Times, Stellar typically receives 5 percent of its players’ contracts and 20 percent of any off-field commercial income. The company also received an undisclosed amount from clubs as a retainer for consultancy and scouting services, a point of contention in the transfer market. The talk of a sale comes amid a potential backlash against agents from soccer’s authorities. FIFA President Gianni Infantino has long railed against the influence of third parties in the player market, and he has vowed to tame the market — and reduce the millions paid to intermediaries — after revelations that the Dutch-Italian agent Mino Raiola could earn as much as 41 million pounds ($53 million) from Manchester United’s purchase of the French midfielder Paul Pogba. Earlier this week FIFA signed a six-year deal with the world’s players union and agreed to review all aspects of the transfer system, including the role of agents. Any changes could affect the bottom lines of companies like Stellar. Barnett blamed the news media for stoking negative headlines about his profession, insisting the industry was far more ethical than banking or politics. “There’s nothing to look at here,” he said. “We’re fine.”