 Kaitlyn Christian may not be faceless for much longer. Christian acted as Emma Stone’s tennis double in the recently released film “Battle of the Sexes,” which re-created the pivotal 1973 exhibition match between Billie Jean King and Bobby Riggs. When necessary, Christian’s face was replaced with Stone’s in the tennis scenes using sophisticated visual effects technology first developed to portray the identical twins Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss in the film “The Social Network.” “It’s just kind of cool to see the finished product with her face on my body,” Christian, 25, said. “It looks so natural and it’s, like, just very strange for me to see that.” In a Hollywood-style coincidence, Christian won the biggest tournament of her fledgling professional career on Oct. 1, the same weekend that “Battle of the Sexes” opened in theaters nationwide. Christian and her partner, Giuliana Olmos, a former teammate at the University of Southern California, took the trophy at a $60,000 I.T.F. Pro Circuit event in Templeton, Calif. Pro Circuit events function as the minor leagues of women’s tennis, allowing players to earn crucial ranking points, if not much money, in order to climb the professional ladder. The more she wins, the more Christian peeks out from behind her digital mask. At the Templeton event, she said, the movie was mentioned on the public address system before and after her matches. “Definitely, I’m getting a lot more recognition now than I did before,” she said. Christian had to delay her plans to become a full-time pro in order to work on “Battle of the Sexes.” But she has picked up two new sponsors since working on the movie, and since the end of last year, she has improved her doubles ranking to No. 155 from No. 706. Christian said her short-term goal was getting her doubles ranking high enough to make the cut for next year’s French Open. Long term, she has her sights set on winning a Grand Slam tournament. Despite having hobnobbed with celebrities like Stone and King, Christian still faces the rigors of being a low-ranked rookie, hopscotching around the globe. She recently spent a week in Hong Kong, where she lost in the first round, and then flew back to the United States for two weeks to practice and play another event. She will leave soon to play in Thailand, Taiwan and possibly India. Even sessions with her coach, Ini Ghidirmic, can be a trek. Ghidirmic, a former tour player from Romania, is a full-time lawyer in Palm Springs, Calif., about an hour’s drive from Rancho Cucamonga, where Christian lives. Not too long ago, Christian was one of U.S.C.’s best women’s doubles players. She was ranked No. 1 in the country for part of all four years she played there. In 2013, she and Sabrina Santamaria won the N.C.A.A. championship, the first doubles team from U.S.C. to do so. Christian graduated in 2014 and played professionally part-time and coached for a year. She had decided to commit fully to tennis, but then she was scouted, through her coach at U.S.C., Richard Gallien, to play Stone’s double. Christian’s backhand landed her the part. “The biggest thing that they looked for was somebody who knew how to slice, and in my regular tennis game, I slice 95 percent of my backhands,” she said, adding proudly, “They sent Billie Jean King some videos, I think, of a lot of the girls. She sort of saw my video, and was like, ‘Yeah, I like that girl’s slice.’ ” Christian practiced for months in preparation for her scenes in the film with the former professional player Vince Spadea, who served as the tennis double for Steve Carell, who plays Riggs. Before she was cast in the role, Christian had never played with a wooden racket like the ones used when King was in her prime. Christian still keeps the racket that she used on the film in her bag, and sometimes warms up with it. “I practice 15 minutes before my real tennis practice,” she said. “It makes you be much more disciplined. With today’s technology, you can be handsy and a little bit lazy because the racket does a little bit for you. “The sweet spot is so much smaller. You can’t be lazy at all. There is no room for error.” Beyond slicing her backhand, Christian’s game resembles King’s more than that of dominant power players of today. “I love to chip and charge,” she said. “I love to come into the net. I’m also comfortable from the baseline, but I don’t by any terms knock people off the court using power. It’s more finesse and touch and spin and outlasting my opponents.” Martina Hingis, known for her crafty play, was Christian’s idol when she was growing up in Orange, Calif. Christian has played Hingis in doubles as a professional (she lost), and said that she was no longer star struck — except by Venus and Serena Williams. “I don’t know if Venus knows that I was the body double,” Christian said with a self-deprecating laugh, “I’ll have to mention that to her.” Although she saw an early cut of “Battle of the Sexes,” Christian missed the premiere because she was playing a tournament in Quebec. She finally saw the finished film last weekend with her parents and some friends. “I think that they added a little bit more tennis, which was really cool to see,” she said.