 HOMESTEAD, Fla. — The immediate drama in the finale of the Nascar Monster Energy series on Sunday featured the four title finalists: Martin Truex Jr., Brad Keselowski, Kyle Busch and Kevin Harvick, who were fighting it out for the season championship at Homestead-Miami Speedway. The 37-year-old Truex emerged with the victory and his first title, holding off Busch by two car lengths. But that story line was somewhat overshadowed by three star drivers who had no shot at the title: The 400-mile race was the final appearance in the full-time careers of Dale Earnhardt Jr., Matt Kenseth and Danica Patrick amid shifting economics in the sport. Earnhardt, the sport’s most beloved driver, had embarked a drawn-out farewell tour since he announced his retirement in April. It was similar to his former teammate Jeff Gordon’s long goodbye two years ago, and Tony Stewart’s departure last year. Although Earnhardt made a choice to end his career largely on his terms, Kenseth, a former series champion, was squeezed out unceremoniously, as no team was willing to meet his demands for salary and resources. But the real shocker was Friday’s announcement by Patrick, the sport’s only active female racer, that she too was ending her full-time career this weekend. She plans to race the Daytona 500 next February and the Indianapolis 500 one final time in May before retiring. “I just want to be remembered as a great driver who was also a woman,” Patrick said, wiping away tears, during her farewell announcement. Patrick’s day ended early in a flaming crash halfway through the race, and she finished 37th of 39 starters after running mid-pack for much of the afternoon. “It was my fault,” Patrick said, glumly, afterward. “I guess I had a tire going down, and I just lost it.” Earnhardt, who is credited with discovering Truex in short-track racing some 15 years ago, finished 25th after brushing the wall late in the race, while Kenseth was eighth. Kyle Larson rounded out the top three behind Busch and Truex, who was the first driver to win the championship with Toyota. The math has changed considerably for Nascar’s competitors as the sport grapples with declining television ratings and attendance. Even high-profile drivers like Greg Biffle, Kasey Kahne and the former champion Kurt Busch face considerable uncertainty. As Earnhardt noted, sponsors are paying far less to advertise on cars during races, and such sponsorships are increasingly difficult to get. Top drivers, who might have commanded annual salaries of $10 million as recently as two years ago, are faced with new realities. “There are kids coming up, teenagers, who are willing to race for a tenth of that — or less,” Earnhardt said. Team owners, who once had annual budgets of $30 million, have had to cut back, sometimes by as much as half that. “The money’s really tight, even for a team like ours,” said Earnhardt, who will continue as a team owner for JR Motorsports. For next year, the belts will be tightened further. Even Keselowski’s Team Penske, one of the series’s top groups, is resorting to rotating sponsorships from race to race. Still, Penske has cobbled together a full season of support, which few other teams so far have managed for 2018. “It’s a very tough time for car owners to find the money that they need to field competitive racecars with competitive personnel,” Kenseth said. “I’ve seen this coming for some time. But I am surprised at how fast it has come to a head.” Some drivers are securing rides by offering attractive prepackaged sponsorship deals that take the onus off the team to raise money. It’s called buying rides, and Stewart, another team owner now, wants no part of it. “I’m not hiring drivers that have money,” Stewart told The Associated Press last month. “I’ve been that route in the dirt-track stuff. I’ve seen it; it’s not the way to run a race team. I know there’s people that have to do that to survive, but if that’s what I had to do to survive, I wouldn’t do it. It’s not worth it to me.” Stewart said he would shut down the team before he would hire a driver bringing in sponsorship money. That’s essentially what has happened to Patrick, whose longtime backing from GoDaddy, and then a replacement sponsor, ran out. Kurt Busch is also scrambling for sponsorship to allow him to continue in 2018. He understands that if he returns, he will most likely have to accept a significant pay cut. Kahne faces a similar reality as he moves from the well-funded Hendrick Motorsports team to a much smaller team for 2018. Nascar’s chief executive, Brian France, said at a state-of-the-sport news conference here Saturday that losing so many big-name drivers would be a turning point for Nascar. But he also saw it as an opportunity for the sport to remake its image with a crop of new faces. “It’s true we are in a transition,” France said. “But that happens from time to time. Not usually in the concentrated manner that we have now. But it happens. And we’re excited. We’ve got a great, great bunch of guys — they’re 19 and 20 years old and they’re talented — so we’re in good shape.”