 Hours after the Yankees postponed their home opener on Monday because of an early-spring snowstorm, the Mets did the same with their 7 p.m. game against the Philadelphia Phillies. Concerned about the safety of their fans, employees and players, the Mets will make up Monday’s game as part of a single-admission doubleheader on July 9. The first game that day will be at 4 p.m. The Mets, who opened the season at home last Thursday, went 2-1 in their season-opening series against the St. Louis Cardinals. They won two games behind their aces, Noah Syndergaard and Jacob deGrom, but stumbled, 5-1, on Sunday behind the starter Steven Matz. On Monday morning, Citi Field — from the stands to the field — was covered in several inches of snow. The temperatures were expected to be in the low 40s by first pitch. As a result of the postponement, the Mets announced that Matt Harvey, who was originally scheduled to make his season debut on Monday against the Phillies, would start on Tuesday. The Mets also revealed that they would skip Seth Lugo, the team’s fifth starter to begin the season, in favor of Syndergaard, who is now slotted to pitch Wednesday against the Phillies. The Mets could have simply pushed everyone in the rotation back a day, allowing Syndergaard to face their division rival, the Washington Nationals, on Thursday. But the team opted not to let him go a week between starts. Instead, deGrom was announced as the Mets’ starter for Thursday in Washington, the Nationals’ home opener. Lugo is the Mets’ fifth starter for now, since an other option for the role, Jason Vargas, was hit on his right hand by a line drive near the end of spring training and needed surgery to remove the broken hamate bone. Vargas, a left-hander, threw a bullpen session on Saturday but still had the sutures in his right hand so he was not allowed to catch the ball for himself. Vargas was originally scheduled to throw a simulated game to the outfielder Michael Conforto on Monday at Citi Field. Conforto, the Mets’ lone All-Star last season, had progressed so quickly from September shoulder surgery that he was a possibility to be activated from the 10-day disabled list as soon as he was eligible on Thursday. His original return date was May 1.