 BOSTON — The Boston Red Sox hired the Houston Astros’ bench coach, Alex Cora, to be their manager on Sunday, turning to a player from their 2007 World Series championship roster to help the team out of its current playoff slump. The Red Sox announced the hire a day after the Astros eliminated the Yankees in the American League Championship Series. With two days off before Houston opens the World Series against the Los Angeles Dodgers, Boston had a chance to hire Cora without running afoul of Major League Baseball’s ban on major moves during the Series. Cora replaced John Farrell, who led the Red Sox to the 2013 title and in the past two years claimed the first back-to-back A.L. East championships in franchise history. But Boston also finished last twice in Farrell’s tenure, and the club has won just one playoff game since winning it all in his first season. A native of Puerto Rico, Cora is the first Hispanic manager for a franchise that was the last in the major leagues to field a black player. The Red Sox faced renewed racial scrutiny this season after Orioles outfielder Adam Jones reported being subjected to racial slurs at Fenway Park. A day later, a fan was barred from the ballpark for life for using racial slurs in the stands. The team’s president, Sam Kennedy, said at the time that the episode made him feel “deep remorse that these things happen in our society.” Cora, who has never managed, played 14 years in the major leagues, including parts of four seasons with the Red Sox, and retired in 2011. He hit .243 with 35 homers and 286 R.B.I. in his career. In 2003, with the Dodgers, he led the National League in putouts and double plays by a second baseman. “Alex is a guy that communicates well with the players; he’s a guy that studies the game,” Astros designated hitter Carlos Beltran said this month. “His preparation is above what I have seen in baseball, and he has a great personality. “He’s intense — players like to see it,” Beltran said. “But at the same time, he is a guy that can sit down in the clubhouse with the players and have a baseball conversation. So he’s got the skills, and I love it. He’s been a big help for this organization. He takes a lot of pride into relationships with the players.”