 MEXICO CITY — Jonathan Osorio scored and Toronto F.C. advanced to the Concacaf Champions League final, playing to a 1-1 tie at Club América on Tuesday night for a 4-2 aggregate victory. It marked the first berth in the Champions League final for an M.L.S. club since 2015, when the Montreal Impact lost to Club América. No North American team has won the competition since the Los Angeles Galaxy did so in 2000, when it was known as the Champions Cup. In the two-leg home-and-home final, Toronto F.C. will face the Mexican club Chivas, which held off the Red Bulls in the other semifinal. Toronto F.C. put out the same starting lineup at Estadio Azteca from its 3-1 win in the first leg last week, but the substitutes Victor Vazquez, Chris Mavinga and Justin Morrow were unavailable. Missing the playmaking Vazquez became an issue early, as striker Jozy Altidore went down in the seventh minute with an injury. He was replaced by Tosaint Ricketts. Osorio scored in the 12th minute, taking a pass from Ricketts just outside the penalty area and slotting the ball neatly into the net for a 1-0 lead. It was Osorio’s third goal of the Champions League. Toronto defender Eriq Zavaleta seemingly scored an own goal in the 20th minute to tie the score, but the assistant referee raised his flag for offside, nullifying it. Toronto goalkeeper Alex Bono made several impressive saves, starting in the 27th minute, when he got a single hand to a sharp header from Club América midfielder Alex Ibarra, deflecting the ball wide of the net. Bono came up big again five minutes later, throwing his hands up for a close-quarters save on Bruno Valdez and catching his own rebound. Bono stepped up again in the 63rd minute, jumping to get a glove on the ball and tip a well-placed strike from Alejandro Díaz over the crossbar. As the game wore on, Toronto captain Michael Bradley moved further and further back, helping to shore up T.F.C.’s defense. His presence made a difference in the 80th minute when he stopped a potential breakaway by Díaz. Club América had a free kick right on the edge of the penalty area in the 84th minute, with goalkeeper Agustin Marchesín coming up to take the shot so his teammates to load up the box. His shot was blocked by Toronto F.C.’s wall. Andres Uribe tied it for Club América in the second minute of injury time on a penalty kick. It was the second straight Mexican club that Toronto had knocked off in the C.C.L., the top club competition for North and Central America and the Caribbean. It defeated Tigres on the away-goals tiebreaker with a 4-4 aggregate score in the quarterfinals. CHIVAS 0, RED BULLS 0 Chivas of Guadalajara advanced to the C.C.L. final with a tie at Red Bull Arena in Harrison, N.J., on Tuesday night for a 1-0 aggregate victory. The Red Bulls had a 20-1 advantage in shots, and Chivas goalkeeper Rodolfo Cota made eight saves before a crowd of 23,623 that featured plenty of Chivas fans. In the 18th minute, the Red Bulls had a scoring chance when Daniel Royer slid a pass into the box to Kemar Lawrence, who just missed connecting with the pass. In the 28th minute, Derrick Etienne Jr. rose above a crowd to get his head on a cross, but the attempt sailed over the crossbar. The Red Bulls had an 11-0 advantage in shots in the first half. In the second half, Chivas had a few more scoring chances, but the Red Bulls kept up the pressure, putting five shots on goal that Cota easily stopped. Red Bulls goalkeeper Luis Robles did not have any saves. Isaac Brizuela had the best scoring chance for Chivas, firing a shot that sailed over the crossbar in the 66th minute.