 Alex Smith threw for 231 yards and two touchdowns, Kareem Hunt ran for 155 yards and a score, and the Kansas City Chiefs routed the turnover-prone Los Angeles Chargers, 30-13, on Saturday night to seize control of the A.F.C. West. Hunt also had a touchdown catch for the Chiefs (8-6), whose eighth straight win over the Chargers all but sewed up the division title and a spot in the playoffs. The only way Kansas City can squander it is by losing its last two games and the Chargers or Oakland Raiders winning out. The Chargers (7-7) led by 13-10 early in the second half, but Philip Rivers threw three interceptions — two of them to Marcus Peters — and Austin Ekeler coughed up a fumble down the stretch. That ended their four-game win streak and quite possibly their playoff hopes. Rivers finished with 221 yards passing and a touchdown, but he has thrown 13 interceptions during the Chargers’ losing streak to the Chiefs. Melvin Gordon added 78 yards rushing and a score. The game shaped up as a matchup of teams going in opposite directions: The Chiefs were 5-0 before watching their division lead waste away, while the Chargers started out 0-4 but won seven of their next nine to forge a near-winner-take-all divisional showdown at Arrowhead Stadium. The Chiefs’ defense was buoyed by the return of Peters from a one-game disciplinary suspension in helping to build a 10-6 halftime lead. Rivers soon got on track, going 5 for 5 for 88 yards on his first drive of the second half. And his 10-yard touchdown pass to tight end Antonio Gates gave Los Angeles its only lead. The Chiefs answered with a methodical, 69-yard scoring drive of their own. Hunt supplied most of the work, and he capped the drive by catching Smith’s short touchdown toss to give the Chiefs a 17-13 lead. Two plays later, Rivers floated a pass downfield and Peters leaped up to make an easy interception, and his long return set up first-and-goal at the Chargers’ 6-yard line. The Chiefs got a field goal, and the Chargers coughed up the ball again three plays later. LIONS 20, BEARS 10 Matthew Stafford threw two touchdown passes and did not have a turnover, helping Detroit to a victory at home over Chicago. The Lions (8-6) have won two straight and need to close the regular season with two more wins to keep their playoff hopes alive. “We’ve got to win to stay in,” said tight end Eric Ebron, who caught Stafford’s second touchdown pass. Whether the Bears (4-10) win another game this season or not, they may end up giving Coach John Fox the boot. Chicago has lost six of seven, sealing a third straight season with double-digit losses under its embattled coach.