 SAN ANTONIO — In 1999, I was courtside when Duke played Connecticut in the N.C.A.A. championship game. On the floor were four first-round N.B.A. draft picks and five others who would go on to have solid-to-spectacular professional careers. Guys like Elton Brand and Richard Hamilton and Shane Battier. When Villanova meets Michigan here on Monday, the pro pickings are going to be much slimmer. The Wildcats’ Mikal Bridges is a likely lottery pick next year, and his teammate Jalen Brunson is projected to go late in the first round. The Wolverines’ Moritz Wagner should go in the second round and might grow into a solid N.B.A. player. So what happened to college basketball? Yes, the upsets in the early rounds of the N.C.A.A. tournament were entertaining, and the evolution of Loyola-Chicago from lovable underdogs to genuine contenders captured the imagination of the nation. But wasn’t this just more evidence of a massive talent drain in the collegiate ranks? Have one-and-doners robbed the game of its majesty? Have slick coaches who have treated them like mercenaries, and the assistants coaches that have been linked to a vast federal investigation into recruiting improprieties, drained any honor out of the label student-athlete? Has the N.B.A., and its rosters stocked with international stars, appropriated America’s game as its own and transformed it into a global entertainment product? Yes, yes and, well, yes. But after a month of watching heart-stopping finishes and returning to college locker rooms, I was reminded that all this hand-wringing and discussion is still over teenagers. And, no matter how many ways the adults find to spoil it, they cannot. There’s too much magic. You saw it moments after Michigan ended Loyola’s fairy tale run on Saturday and the Wolverines’ Jordan Poole, an 18-year-old freshman, sought out Sister Jean Dolores Schmidt, the Ramblers’ 98-year-old chaplain and inspiration, for a word. What did he say to her? “I told her I was a big fan,” Poole said. “Everything that she brought to the table, and being able to have such a big impact on the team, being in a situation like this, I thought it was amazing. Kids don’t really get to live in opportunities like this, so having those guys being able to do it and her being behind their back, I thought that was pretty cool.” You felt it when Wagner was told after his 24-point, 15-rebound performance that he had joined Hakeem Olajuwon and Larry Bird as the only players to score at least 20 points and collect at least 15 rebounds in a national semifinal. “Wow,” Wagner said with a tickled smile. Wagner then explained how, as a boy in Berlin, he grew up watching the Final Four each year and how he had watched Michigan lose a close game to Louisville in the 2013 final. The Wolverines coach, John Beilein, had made an impression on him. A year later, after a tip from a coaching acquaintance, Beilein flew to Berlin to talk Wagner out of signing a European professional contract and to persuade him to play college ball instead. “So as a little kid, to see him in my living room,” he said, “for a couple of hours, just to meet my family and see where I’m from, it meant something. It’s crazy, but we’re in it together.” Villanova Coach Jay Wright has abandoned the pursuit of All-Americans who want to spend the obligatory year (or, more often, a matter of months) in college before seeking fortune in the N.B.A. He said that he prefers players who actually want to attend college — to become a better student, a better person, a better player — and are willing to stay for however long it takes. “That’s what we call our culture,” he said. “We’re more interested in maintaining our culture than we are getting guys to the N.B.A. or winning national championships. We feel like that fits our university and it will serve every player the best in the end.” The culture has been mostly a winning one of late; the Wildcats are seeking their second national title in three years. And no player embodies it better than Brunson. He gives no quarter on the court; he came out of high school on the same McDonald’s All-American roster as one-and-dones like Ben Simmons and Brandon Ingram, and he has collected nearly every player of the year honor available to him. But he also was named the Big East’s men’s basketball scholar-athlete of the year this season, and he will graduate after only three years, a fact that makes Wright just as proud as his play does. “I knew the N.B.A. could wait,” Brunson said. “I needed to be a better player and person. I had enough confidence in myself knowing it’s nothing magical. It’s all in the work.” While Brunson worked, even more one-and-dones came and went in college basketball. Another group arrived last fall — Deandre Ayton at Arizona, Marvin Bagley III at Duke, Michael Porter Jr. at Missouri — and now they, too, are off preparing for the draft. In fact, take a look at nearly any N.B.A. mock draft and you’ll find a majority of the projected top-10 picks are one-and-dones. It’s nothing new. Shortly after UConn beat Duke all those years ago, Brand, William Avery and Corey Maggette — all underclassmen — did what was then considered unthinkable: they left the Blue Devils early for the N.B.A. So what has happened to college basketball? Everything. And nothing. The kids are making adult decisions faster. Some adults are acting like kids, making selfish decisions without thinking through the consequences. Yet despite all of that, we follow the N.C.A.A. tournament. It’s easier when you remember that college basketball is about kids playing a game. It brings us as much joy as it does them.