 Marit Bjoergen won her eighth gold medal in the final event of the Games, mass start cross country. South Korea’s “Garlic Girls” lost the curling gold medal match to Sweden, 8-3. Two steals in ends 4 and 5 gave Sweden a 5-1 lead that it did not relinquish. South Korea’s silver medal was its first in curling; it also won its first snowboard, bobsled and skeleton medals ever at these Games. “We did the game of the week when we needed it in an Olympic final,” said Swedish skip Anna Hasselborg. “I'm so proud of my girls. It was an amazing game to play. I'm overwhelmed with feelings. It's crazy.” Russia rallied from 3-2 down to Germany in the third period of the gold medal hockey match, scoring a short-handed goal with less than a minute left, then winning in overtime, 4-3. Nikita Gusev had two goals for Russia, known at these Games as “Olympic Athletes from Russia.” It was the first gold for Russian players in the event since 1992, when Russia played as the Unified Team. “Since I was five years old, when I started to play hockey, this was the dream of my late father; this was my dream,” said Ilya Kovalchuk, the tournament’s MVP. “I think we haven’t quite realized what we did. But no matter how often you said that it would be easy, that it’s a second-tier league, I think that today’s game put a lot of things back in their place. It showed that this is the Olympics.” The International Olympic Committee upheld its suspension of Russia as a team from the Games, a move that will force its athletes to march in the closing ceremony without their national colors or flag. The decision, in a vote here Sunday, came after two failed drug tests by Russian athletes — among more than 160 competing here under a special dispensation — and after a long night of talks among senior I.O.C. officials. Full coverage here. Flag bearers at the ceremony will include Jessica Diggins of the United States, Marit Bjoergen of Norway, Ester Ledecka of Czech Republic and Pita Taufatofua of Tonga. Marit Bjoergen of Norway powered away from the field and won the women’s mass start race by almost two minutes. It was the eighth gold medal and 15th medal overall for Bjoergen, 37. The eight gold medals equaled the record held by two other Norwegians, Ole Bjoerndalen in biathlon and Bjoern Daehlie in cross country. The 15 medals is the record. “When I look behind me and see what I have done, it's incredible,” Bjoergen said. “It has been an amazing career for me; this is my last Olympics and to finish like this is incredible.” Teresa Stadlober of Austria was in second place when she took a wrong turn, dropping her back to eighth. She finished ninth. Francesco Friedrich of Germany, driver of the winning two-man sled, added the gold medal in the four-man bob. A second German sled and South Korea tied for the silver. Germany won gold in all three bobsled events at the Games. It was Germany’s 14th gold medal at the Games, equaling a record set by Canada in Vancouver in 2010. Norway also won 14 golds at these Games. Nana Takagi of Japan and Seung-Hoon Lee of South Korea won the mass start speedskating races. New at these Olympics, mass start races are the only long-track events in which skaters all race at once. “As the first mass start, I feel very happy to do this in front of my home crowd and I am honored to get so much praise with this medal,” Lee said. Two members of the Canada’s Olympic delegation, an athlete and a manager, were arrested Friday in Pyeongchang, accused of stealing an idling car and driving drunk, a local police official and representative of Team Canada said Saturday. Lee In-ho, superintendent of the Gangwon Province Police, declined to name the athlete or manager but said the driver had a blood alcohol level of .160. Mr. Lee said that the pair jumped into the car and drove from Daegwalryong village in Pyeongchang to the athletes’ village, in Gangneung. It was not immediately clear whether the athlete or the manager drove the car. Reports in the Canadian and South Korean news media said the athlete was a 35-year-old skier who did not win a medal. Isabelle Charest, Canada’s chef de mission, confirmed there had been an incident involving a Canadian athlete but declined to provide further details. — MOTOKO RICH Sebastien Toutant of Canada won the men’s big air snowboard event, wrapping up the gold with an 84.75 and a competition-best 89.50 on his first two jumps. The American Kyle Mack was second, while Red Gerard, 17, who had won the slopestyle event earlier in the games, placed fifth.  In the crowd was Ivanka Trump taking in her first event of the Olympics with South Korean First Lady Kim Jung-sook. Ester Ledecka of the Czech Republic won a gold medal in the snowboarding parallel giant slalom on Saturday, becoming the first woman to win a medal in two sports in a single Olympics. She had earlier won the skiing super-G. Nevin Galmarini of Switzerland won the men’s race.  “It was actually quite tough to change myself to a snowboarder. I had one week for it, in the end, and until yesterday I didn’t really feel good with my riding. But today I found the snowboarder in me, luckily.” Full coverage here. The American men won the country’s first gold medal in curling with a 10-7 victory against Sweden. John Shuster, a four-time Olympian who was basically kicked out of the national program after the team’s poor showing in Sochi four years ago, led the team.  It was one of the more improbable comebacks in the history of curling. With a 2-4 record and three games left in the tournament, Shuster couldn’t afford to lose another game. The team got on a roll with wins over the Canadian curling juggernauts and the number one ranked team in the world, Sweden, to capture Olympic gold. Full coverage here. Iivo Niskanen of Finland, who won a gold medal in the team sprint four years ago, proved his versatility by winning the longest race of the Olympics, the 50-kilometer mass start cross country race. It was the first gold medal for Finland at the Games, and the first medal of any kind for a Finnish man.  “It's a big deal for us, I saw the list,” Niskanen said. “The last Olympic champion in an individual race was 20 years ago." A two-man, two-woman Swiss team out-skied Austria in the final of the Alpine team event. The new event featured four head-to-head matchups down a short slalom course with a small jump. Wendy Holdener of the winning team picked up her third medal of the Games and Ramon Zenhausern his second. Norway won the bronze. A United States team without any of its Alpine stars was eliminated by Britain in the round of 16. Kjeld Nuis of the Netherlands, the 1,500-meter winner, edged Havard Lorentzen of Norway, the 500-meter winner, in the men’s 1,000-meter speedskating race. It was the seventh gold medal for the Netherlands out of 12 events so far. The old rivals Norway and Sweden headed into the final shooting segment of the men’s biathlon relay locked in a battle for first. Fredrik Lindstroem of Sweden missed just once. But Emil Svendsen of Norway, whose poor shooting at the end dropped Norway from first to fourth four years ago, missed three times. As a consolation, this time it only dropped Norway from first to second, rather than fourth. In a thrilling end to a battle between the sport’s superpowers, the United States beat Canada by a score of 3-2 in a shootout to win the gold medal in women’s ice hockey. Jocelyne Lamoureux-Davidson’s goal in the sixth round of the shootout sealed the victory for the Americans, giving the team its first gold in the event since 1998. Alina Zagitova of Russia won the Olympic gold medal in women’s figure skating, edging out her countrywoman, Evgenia Medvedeva. The two skaters tied in the free skate, but Zagitova’s small edge in the short program made the difference. The closing ceremony