 CHICAGO — Kris Dunn made two free throws with 2.9 seconds left to give the Chicago Bulls a 104-102 victory over the Knicks on Saturday night. Coach Fred Hoiberg put the ball in Dunn’s hands during the final possession and the second-year point guard was fouled by Courtney Lee while driving to the basket. “I want to be a leader for my team and I want to make the big plays,” Dunn said. “I know we have multiple guys who can make plays, but I definitely want to be one of them.” After a timeout, the Knicks, who had scored 10 consecutive points to tie the score, 102-102, had a chance to tie again or take the lead, but Kristaps Porzingis missed a 3-pointer at the buzzer. Nikola Mirotic, in just his second game of the season, had 19 points to help Chicago win its second straight. Dunn finished with 17 points, 9 assists and 7 rebounds, and Lauri Markkanen and David Nwaba had 15 points apiece. Nwaba had 11 points in the fourth quarter. “I’m proud of the guys for finding a way to hang on there,” Hoiberg said. Porzingis had 23 points for New York. The Knicks are 1-8 on the road. “I feel like I let my teammates down, and I’m not talking about the last shot but in general the whole game,” Porzingis said. “We have to play at a better level, and I have to play at a better level from the beginning.” After snapping a 10-game losing streak on Friday night at Charlotte, the Bulls didn’t arrive back in Chicago until about five hours before game time because of weather-related delays. But they jumped out to a 19-6 lead and rallied after New York took a 70-68 lead into the fourth quarter. “The game was lost way in the beginning,” Knicks Coach Jeff Hornacek said. “They’re a team that had travel issues. We come out not ready to play, let them get out to a big lead. They showed some fight at the end. We’ve got to come out at the beginning of the game. That’s a mental preparation thing that we talked about.” NOTES Center Enes Kanter injured his hip late in the game, but said he would be fine to play on Sunday. Center Joakim Noah, who spent the first nine seasons of his career in Chicago, was inactive even though he was not injured. Noah has been inactive or has not played in four of the last five games. Guard Tim Hardaway Jr. (stress injury, lower left leg) remained in a walking boot. “We’re going to re-evaluate in two weeks,” General Manager Scott Perry said. “I’m optimistic that we’re doing all the right things and eventually he’s going to be O.K.”