 The Mets’ rookie manager, Mickey Callaway, is, at 42, among the youngest in the job in baseball and part of a growing fraternity whose members are much like him: relatively youthful and inexperienced but molded by contemporary baseball’s focus on analytical information and interpersonal skills. The manager he replaced was, at 68 years old, the oldest in baseball and oversaw a particularly calamitous 2017 season. It stood out, even for a franchise with a history of late-season collapses. Callaway has vowed to pull the Mets into modernity. He has showed the hybrid approach of the modern manager, crunching numbers for big, perhaps unpopular, decisions but delivering them with the ease and aplomb of a straight-shooting old friend. His style was evident during a stretch of spring training in which the Mets’ play was sloppy. Normally upbeat, Callaway, without prompting, was critical of the poor play in his daily news conference. What was different, though, was that he had pulled a few veteran players aside to tell them exactly how he felt before telling the rest of the team — and reporters — so they wouldn’t be surprised. “It was very honest and very transparent,” right fielder Jay Bruce said. “He wasn’t on the offensive. That’s huge. This isn’t a show for him.” Unlike the Billy Martin-type managers of a past era who screamed authority, managers increasingly are middlemen between larger, more powerful front offices and the clubhouse. They must embrace and enact the data-driven concepts that transformed the sport, while motivating sometimes skeptical players and soothing egos. They are careful team spokesmen. “Today, the manager is not omniscient and not omnipotent,” said Sandy Alderson, the Mets’ general manager, who has watched the position change since his days as an Oakland Athletics executive in the 1980s. In the past, the biggest decisions made by managers involved strategy. With the proliferation of statistical analysis, in-game decisions have become more uniform, and the manager’s focus has shifted. “You’re really not going to get a manager that is a ton better than another because everybody is getting the same information and it’s so accessible,” Callaway said one morning before the start of spring training at his oceanfront home in Santa Rosa Beach, on the Florida Panhandle. “So what is going to set your team apart?” To answer, he pointed to the mentor he worked under as a pitching coach for five years, Terry Francona of the Cleveland Indians, who is considered one of the best managers in baseball for his ability to blend numbers with a deft handling of players and the news media. “You get a guy like Tito who can communicate great, keep players playing hard and create the right culture so you get the maximum out of your players,” Callaway said, referring to Francona by his nickname. “That’s the edge people are looking for.” Nowadays, managers face clubhouses full of players with diverse backgrounds and salaries that dwarf their own. Emboldened players challenge them more and talk directly to owners. Sports reporting can be almost instantaneous. Managers collaborate with more employees, from doctors to statistical analysts. “You’re representing the organization as the frontman,” said the Colorado Rockies’ manager, Bud Black, who has been a major league pitcher, a coach and a front office assistant. “You have to be so well versed and wear many hats and have the ability to cross over so many cross-sections of an organization to be effective.” In their previous manager, Terry Collins, the Mets had a fiery baseball lifer for seven seasons who took the team from losing to, at his peak, the 2015 World Series, but whose relationship with the front office and players became strained. In Callaway, Alderson saw a creative and open-minded person who embraced data, and not simply because his bosses wanted him to. During Callaway’s job interview, Alderson said, game strategy was not discussed much. Alderson said he cared more about how Callaway carried himself and arrived at his decisions. “Mickey wants input,” Alderson said. “He wants it from the front office and his coaches. In our case, we’re looking for an opportunity to influence the decision-making. Not to direct it, but to provide whatever we can to support the manager.” It will be up to Callaway, of course, to contend with the Wilpons, the Mets’ ever-present owners, and Alderson’s front office, influences which, at times, were challenging for past managers to deal with. Callaway arrived at the Mets after a winding career that spanned continents. A Memphis native, he left the University of Mississippi to sign with the expansion Tampa Bay Devil Rays as a seventh-round pick in 1996. He pitched in parts of five major league seasons with three teams. But ineffectiveness on the mound and injuries forced him to pitch in professional baseball leagues in Korea and Taiwan and independent baseball in Texas. His wife, Anna, and later their daughters, Catherine and Madeline, traveled with him. Needing a place to rehabilitate after Tommy John surgery, he served as the interim head baseball coach at Texas A&amp;M International University in 2008 with no previous experience. “I was a pretty good self-evaluator as a player, which was probably bad in my case because I wasn’t very good,” he said. “It made me realize that I would make a better coach.” When he became a coach, Callaway had much to draw on. He grew up in baseball’s budding information age. With the Devil Rays, he learned from star players like Fred McGriff and Wade Boggs. With the Anaheim Angels during their World Series-winning 2002 season, Callaway absorbed game strategy from Mike Scioscia, one of baseball’s top managers. With the Texas Rangers, Callaway learned about preparation from Buck Showalter, also among baseball’s best. The biggest influences on Callaway, though, were the Indians and Francona. In 2010, they hired him as the pitching coach at their Class A affiliate in Eastlake, Ohio. He was promoted each year until becoming the major league pitching coach in 2013. In Callaway’s five seasons leading the Indians pitchers, they posted a 3.65 earned run average, fourth best in baseball. They reached the playoffs three times, including the 2016 World Series. They set a major league record with 1,614 strikeouts in 2017. “Mickey is a progressive and open-minded guy who collaborates exceptionally well, whether that’s with an old-school traditional baseball guy, to an athletic trainer, to an analyst upstairs in a front office,” Mike Chernoff, the Indians’ general manager, said. “His ability to integrate all of those things to come up with the best individualized plan for a pitcher is what really took us to the next level.” Callaway’s ideas from his playing days changed after hanging around the analytically focused front office. He once thought a closer needed to pitch the ninth inning to win, but the data persuaded him otherwise. He saw firsthand how the star relief pitcher Andrew Miller was more useful at putting out fires against the heart of an opponent’s lineup regardless of the inning. “You have to use your matchups to your advantage, not to the other team’s advantage,” Callaway said. He spent the off-season telling the Mets’ relief pitchers about the team’s new philosophy, including Jeurys Familia, the former All-Star closer who is eligible for free agency next winter. Teams have increasingly rewarded pitchers who are not closers at contract time, so perhaps it won’t matter much if Familia logs fewer saves. Familia is still expected to receive the bulk of the save chances, but Callaway said he intended to use him, Anthony Swarzak, Jerry Blevins and A. J. Ramos, also a former All-Star closer, interchangeably based on matchups. Familia said he had no issue because the strategy made sense, evidenced by Cleveland’s success. He appreciated that Callaway called him not only to explain the change, but twice more to check up on him and his family. “When I got to spring training, it felt like I already knew him,” Familia said in Spanish. Following another trend championed by analytics, Callaway will be vigilant about the perils of letting starters face an opponent’s lineup a third time. To any pitcher unhappy about an early exit, he promised to detail the decision and the ways he can improve. Callaway’s contemporary sensibilities also motivated him to move up the Mets’ most dynamic hitter, Yoenis Cespedes, to second in the lineup because statistics showed it could lead to a few more runs. But as much as Callaway trusts data, he cherishes the personal touch. He admired how Francona played cards with players in his office yet still had difficult conversations with them about their play. (Callaway golfed and fished with Mets players this spring.) He appreciated how Francona empowered his coaches to make decisions. (Callaway has deferred to the pitching coach, Dave Eiland.) He studied how Francona mitigated a potential World Series hangover to enjoy an eight-win improvement the next regular season. In Cleveland, Callaway said the environment pushed him to keep learning. He borrowed ideas on leadership from books and on improving performance from experts. He researched plans before presenting them to players, such as the fastidious starting pitcher Trevor Bauer, knowing they could challenge him by looking up information on their own. “He probably hates me right now, but I hope 10 years from now he looks back and says: ‘Know what? He was tough on me, but he made me a better pitcher, and I respect him for that,’ ” Callaway said. “That’s how you truly care about someone. You have to show players every day that you care.” After accepting the job, Callaway reached out to every player and shared a meal with some, including Noah Syndergaard and Cespedes in Florida. “He’s very relatable and approachable,” Syndergaard said. Callaway gave copies of “Legacy,” by James Kerr, a book about the All Blacks rugby team of New Zealand, to team leaders. He asked players for their input on an array of matters, including scheduling, travel and what rules they wanted to enforce themselves or leave to coaches. He benched the first base prospect Dominic Smith when he arrived late to a morning meeting in spring training. “It’s important when you can talk to your manager as a man and not just as a manager,” Ramos said. Callaway shortened spring training practices by at least an hour, reducing wasted time, which he believes leads to injuries, and increasing rest. To emphasize how important a daily routine is to success and health, Callaway held the first meeting for pitchers and catchers in the weight room. Those who don’t follow won’t play. “Mickey is like old meets new,” said Bruce, who got to know Callaway last fall with the Indians. “He’s played enough to know that some things these days are eyewash, but knows the importance of having the information and using it if it makes sense.” In New York, Callaway will have much to juggle. He welcomed the scrutiny and competitiveness of the position, and so far has been accommodating to fans and reporters. The challenges of his rookie season await. “I happen to be right in the middle of everything, and if I didn’t like it, I wouldn’t have accepted the job,” he said. “I could have stayed as pitching coach, sat back and had less pressure. But I’m going to embrace it.”