 Duncan Robinson, the sweet-shooting Michigan basketball forward, has been around many players at many levels over the years, but he says he has never met anyone quite like his teammate Jordan Poole. Some players are cocky; others shy. Some are nasty; others generous and warm. But when asked what was truly unique about Poole, a charismatic freshman whose last-second shot sent Michigan to the round of 16, Robinson laughed. “He wears Capri pants and cat T-shirts,” Robinson said. “He’s obsessed with cats. What other college basketball player do you know that goes around wearing cat shirts?” In an alternate universe, one in which the University of Maryland-Baltimore County didn’t knock off a No. 1 seed and Sister Jean, the 98-year-old nun praying Loyola-Chicago to win after win, did not command so much attention, the 6-foot-4 Poole might be a bigger deal in this year’s N.C.A.A. basketball tournament. He’s a long-legged, loquacious, short-shorts-wearing, cat-loving freshman who saved Michigan’s season with a wild, splay-legged heave at the buzzer. But talking about cats made Poole almost as excited as discussing his winning shot on Saturday. When told of Robinson’s description of him, Poole smiled and recounted how he grew up with cats in his house, which his family had deemed the most sensible pet solution given all the time it spent traveling to his out-of-town basketball games while he was growing up. “My mom didn’t want to get a dog,” Poole said. “Plus, she had hardwood floors and she didn’t want the dogs on the hardwood floors. So we had cats.” One in particular was his favorite: a cat acquired when Poole was a young boy. The cat died during Poole’s senior year in high school, but Poole grew animated on Saturday while discussing their years together. “His name was Bling,” Poole said, pointing emphatically to a reporter’s notebook. “Put that in there.” Recognizable around Ann Arbor for his cat shirts, those short shorts and his surplus of confidence, Poole now is familiar to fans in Michigan and beyond for his 3-point shot against Houston, which gave Michigan a 64-63 win in the round of 32. Among the reasons it might have been overlooked, though, was that it settled into the basket after midnight in the Eastern time zone, after many fans had gone to bed. But that did not stop the extroverted Poole from sharing his joy with anyone who asked him about it. “You see him in front of cameras?” his teammate Isaiah Livers said. “He lives for this. He lives for the headlines. That’s the type of guy he is, and he deserves it.” He did not receive all the praise, however. Some of it, at least on Twitter, was mistakenly directed to the Academy Award-winning screenwriter Jordan Peele, who accepted it all with a tongue-in-cheek reply on Sunday afternoon. “I wanna thank everyone for the congratulatory messages. When you practice your jump shot as much as I have, you just hope one day it’ll pay off,” Peele wrote, touching off an exchange of congratulations between the two Jordans. Poole praised Peele’s Oscar-nominated film “Get Out” in their exchange, but in Los Angeles on Wednesday he acknowledged that his favorite Peele film was “Keanu,” which, naturally, has a plot centered around a stolen kitten. In just a few months, Poole has developed into a valuable role player for the Wolverines. He played in 35 games, all of them off the bench, and averaged 12.7 minutes and 6.2 points. His 3-pointer Saturday against Houston was only his eighth point of that game; in the previous four, including Michigan’s run to the Big Ten tournament title, he had scored a total of 10 points. In the first few months of the season, as he was adapting to the college game, Poole could not crack Coach John Beilein’s nine-man rotation and spent much of his time on the scout team, mimicking the plays of coming opponents. It was there that Beilein and the other players began to realize that Poole had a knack for hitting late-game shots. The desperate game-winner against Houston was tossed in from well behind the 3-point arc, and Poole was so off balance that his legs split awkwardly wide and he fell to the floor before the ball went in after the horn sounded. But it went in. “He’s the clutchest player I’ve ever played with in my life,” Livers said. “They couldn’t know that he hits that shot in his sleep.” Minutes after the game, Moritz Wagner, the Wolverines’ junior big man from Germany, walked into the jubilant Michigan locker room and found Poole entertaining a group of reporters in front of Wagner’s locker. Wagner shook his head. “I’m going to move to another locker because he’s never going to stop talking,” Wagner said. He might not stop soon. At No. 3, Michigan is the highest remaining seed in the West Regional in Los Angeles, where it will face No. 7 Texas A&amp;M on Thursday. (No. 4 Gonzaga will meet No. 9 Florida State in the second game.) But even as the legend of Poole grew on the court, he knew his celebration would be short-lived. It was already early Sunday morning, and he had a paper and a presentation to complete for a class in Greek mythology. “It’s due Monday,” Poole said. “Got to grind and knock it out.”