 While winning 14 majors over 11 years, Tiger Woods seldom had a layoff. But a series of injuries and personal setbacks have made his last decade a lot rockier. After a 10-month wait, Woods begins his latest return on Thursday in the Hero World Challenge in the Bahamas. He’s optimistic. But it’s not his first optimistic comeback of recent times: The Comeback February 2009. First tournament since the previous June, when he won the United States Open, which remains his most recent major win. Why? Torn anterior cruciate ligament in his knee; fractured tibia. What he said “I’m now ready to play again.” More worryingly, his caddie, Steve Williams, said of Woods, “He hasn’t been able to walk too well.” Result Eliminated in round of 32 by Tim Clark. “I just happened to catch Tim playing really well,” Woods said, “and I didn’t make enough birdies to answer him.” Three weeks later, Woods won the Arnold Palmer Invitational, and he ended up with six Tour wins that year. The Comeback April 2010. First tournament since the previous November. Why? After he crashed his S.U.V. into a tree and his marital infidelities were exposed, Woods announced an “indefinite break from professional golf.” What he said “It was great to get out there again to get into the rhythm and the flow and hit the shots. I felt very comfortable.” Result Tied for fourth. But he did not win a tournament the rest of the year. The Comeback August 2011. First full tournament since April (He played nine holes at the Players Championship in May). He had missed the U.S. and British Opens. Why? A leg injury. He had also fired Williams, his longtime caddie, and left his management company, IMG. What he said Asked about positives, he said: “I know my stats don’t show it, but just the way I’m driving the golf ball.” Result Tied for 37th. He went on to miss the cut at the P.G.A. Championship, and played only one more regular Tour event on the year. The Comeback June 2014. First tournament since March, having missed the Masters and the U.S. Open. Why? Back surgery. What he said “After a lot of therapy, I have recovered well.” Result Missed the cut. He finished 69th at the British Open, withdrew from the Bridgestone after three rounds, missed the cut at the P.G.A., and was then finished for season. The Comeback December 2014. The unofficial tournament in the Bahamas was his first event since August. Why? Back problems. What he said “I felt like I did some really positive things. I’m pleased about that. I just need to clean it up.” Result Tied for 17th in an 18-man field. At his first regular PGA Tour event, the Phoenix Open in February, he shot an 82, his worst round as a pro. The Comeback December 2016. Back in the Bahamas for his first tournament since August 2015. Why Back problems. What he said: “I’m sitting here in front of you guys with a different reality because things have improved so much.” Result 15th. Missed the cut at an event in January, withdrew from another in February and hasn’t played since. The Comeback November 2017. In the Bahamas again for his first tournament since February. Why? The back. He also pleaded guilty to reckless driving after being found asleep at the wheel of his parked Mercedes in May. What he said “I’m loving life now.” Result To be determined.