 Kristaps Porzingis scored 28 points, Enes Kanter had 20 points, 20 rebounds and 5 assists, and the Knicks completed a regular-season sweep of the Nets with a 111-95 victory Tuesday night at Madison Square Garden. The Knicks returned home from their longest trip of the season in new uniforms — a darker blue than their usual uniforms designed to pay homage to New York’s firefighters — but continued their same old dominance of the Nets, with their fourth victory in four tries this season. They controlled the interior again and swept the series for the first time since 2010-11 — before the rivals shared the same city. Kanter was 8 of 10 from the field and Tim Hardaway Jr. added 15 points for the Knicks, who went 3-4 on their trip, which started with a victory in Brooklyn on Jan. 15. Michael Beasley finished with 12 points and 13 rebounds. The Knicks kept up their strong offensive play on Tuesday that they had displayed on their trip, when they averaged 111.3 points, fourth-best in the N.B.A. during that stretch. DeMarre Carroll scored 13 points for the Nets, who lost their fourth straight game. They played their second in a row without starting forward Rondae Hollis-Jefferson (strained right groin) and the reserve guard Caris LeVert (sore left groin). The Knicks were again without Joakim Noah, who is not expected to play Wednesday in Boston, Coach Jeff Hornacek said. The backup center left the team near the end of the trip after getting frustrated with Hornacek. The Nets fell behind by 18 in the second quarter but cut the deficit to 10 midway through the period before the Knicks opened it up again, building a 61-41 advantage at halftime. The Knicks took a 25-point lead that the Nets again trimmed to 10, but Porzingis made a 3-point shot with seven and a half minutes remaining to halt their push. Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said the team would determine Wednesday whether guard D’Angelo Russell, recently back from knee surgery, would be able to play the second night of a back-to-back, when the 76ers visit Barclays Center. Russell finished with 7 points and 5 rebounds in 20 minutes of play on Tuesday. If he is not available Wednesday, and if LeVert remains out, Atkinson said that Nik Stauskas and Isaiah Whitehead could be ball-handling options.