 MELBOURNE, Australia — Alexander Zverev has long been touted as a future Grand Slam champion. Problem is, he can’t seem to get anywhere near the second week of a major. The fourth-seeded Zverev made yet another puzzling early exit at a Grand Slam tournament, dropping 12 of the final 15 games in a 5-7, 7-6 (3), 2-6, 6-3, 6-0 loss to his fellow rising star Hyeon Chung in the third round of the Australian Open on Saturday. Zverev, 20, won five ATP tournaments last year, second only to Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal, but has reached the fourth round of a major just once — at last year’s Wimbledon — and has never gone beyond. More troubling, Zverev has notched multiple wins over top-10 players like Federer, Novak Djokovic and Stan Wawrinka at regular ATP tournaments, but has not managed to beat a player ranked in the top 50 at a major. Against Chung, Zverev seemed to come apart in the fourth set. He played at a high level for the first three sets, hitting 48 winners, including 19 aces, and making 27 unforced errors. He managed just nine winners to 24 unforced errors the rest of the match. “I think game-wise, my level was good,” he said. “I think I should have won in four sets.” Zverev acknowledged, though, that Chung, 21, had dramatically improved in the last year and that he was playing better than his current ranking, No. 58, would suggest. “This was a top-10 level match from the start till the end of the fourth set, and for him until the end,” Zverev said. “When he plays like that, there are very, very few people who will beat him.” Chung went undefeated last November to capture the title at the NextGen ATP Finals, a tournament for the best eight players who were 21 and younger. (Zverev didn’t take part because he qualified for the ATP Finals in London.) And with his run in Melbourne, Chung became the first South Korean man ever to reach the fourth round at the Australian Open and just the third Korean player (male or female) to go so far at a Grand Slam. His next opponent is not ranked as high as Zverev, but presents just as daunting a challenge — the six-time champion Novak Djokovic. Seeded 14th this year, Djokovic beat Chung in straight sets in the first round two years ago. “I have one more chance to play with a great player in the world,” Chung said. “I’m just happy to share the court with Novak.” When a downcast Zverev was asked after the match whether his problem in best-of-five-set matches was physical or mental, he replied, “Definitely not physical.” “I have some figuring out to do, what happens to me in deciding moments in Grand Slam,” he said. “It happened at Wimbledon. It happened in New York. It happened here.” Zverev’s Grand Slam record is a meager 14-11. Among those who have beaten him are Borna Coric (second round, 2017 United States Open), Dan Evans (second round, 2016 U.S. Open) and Fernando Verdasco (first round, 2017 French Open). Djokovic continued his comeback from six months out with an injured right elbow, beating No. 21 Albert Ramos-Vinolas, 6-2, 6-3, 6-3. “I obviously have to be more humble this time with my expectations because I haven’t played for six months,” Djokovic said. Federer entered last year’s Australian Open under similar circumstances, coming off an extended break for a knee injury, and went on to win the title. His defense moved through another round Saturday with a 6-2, 7-5, 6-4 win over No. 29 Richard Gasquet. Federer, the No. 2 seed, will next face the former world junior No. 1 Marton Fucsovics, who beat Nicolas Kicker in straight sets. Angelique Kerber routed Maria Sharapova, 6-1, 6-3, in their third-round match on Saturday night, meaning she will be the only Grand Slam champion in the fourth round of the women’s draw. Sharapova, a five-time major winner, was back at Melbourne Park for the first time since 2016, when a failed doping test led to a 15-month ban from tennis. She had comfortable wins in the first two rounds and was growing in confidence, but she had no answers for Kerber, who is on a 12-match winning streak in a kind of comeback of her own after a sliding down the rankings last year. “I learned a lot from the last 12, 24 months. I had a great 2016, and last year was a little tougher,” Kerber said, reflecting on how her year-end ranking dropped from No. 1 to 21 when she failed to defend her Australian or U.S. Open titles. “Anybody who knows me knows I never give up.” Her match with Sharapova was over in 1 hour 4 minutes, a vast contrast to top-ranked Simona Halep’s 4-6, 6-4, 15-13 win over Lauren Davis in 3 hours 44 minutes. Davis, an American ranked 76th in the world, needed two medical timeouts for foot treatment in the third set, which lasted 2 hours 22 minutes. The Romanian Halep is playing in her first major tournament since ascending to No. 1. She has yet to win a Grand Slam; her best finishes have been two trips to the final at the French Open. Halep’s next opponent will be Naomi Osaka, who beat 18th-seeded Ash Barty, 6-4, 6-2. When No. 20 Barbora Strycova beat the American-Croatian qualifier Bernarda Pera, 6-2, 6-2, Madison Keys, the runner-up at the 2017 U.S. Open, became the only American woman to reach the fourth round. Keys advanced, 6-3, 6-4, over Ana Bogdan and will next play No. 8 Caroline Garcia, who beat Aliaksandra Sasnovich, 6-3, 5-7, 6-2. Sixth-seeded Karolina Pliskova beat No. 29 Lucie Safarova, 7-6 (6), 7-5. In the last night match, Hsieh Su-wei followed up her win over the reigning Wimbledon champion Garbiñe Muguruza by beating No. 26 Agnieszka Radwanska, 6-2, 7-5, to return to the fourth round at Melbourne Park for the first time in a decade. Her assignment will get tougher, with Kerber up next. Tomas Berdych ended Juan Martin del Potro’s return to Melbourne Park — his first visit since 2014 — with a 6-3, 6-3, 6-2 win. Fifth-seeded Dominic Thiem beat Adrian Mannarino, 6-4, 6-2, 7-5, to set up a fourth-round match against Tennys Sandgren, who continued his career-best run by beating Maximilian Marterer, 5-7, 6-3, 7-5, 7-6 (5).