 MINNEAPOLIS — The All-Star forward Jimmy Butler comes across as the proudest former resident in the history of tiny Tomball, Texas. What he doesn’t advertise in his Twitter biography, but also doesn’t dispute, is that he grew up dreaming of becoming a Houston Rocket like his hero Tracy McGrady. “It was Houston everything for me,” said Butler, who grew up in Tomball, roughly 30 miles from Houston’s city center. “Whatever sport I was in love with at the time, I wanted to be playing for the Houston Rockets, Houston Astros, Houston Texans. I was Houston to the death.” Butler was recounting his childhood history in a mostly empty Minnesota Timberwolves locker room late Saturday night, having just inspired the Timberwolves to a stirring postseason victory over (you guessed it) his boyhood favorites. Something else Butler didn’t deny after Minnesota’s first home playoff date in 14 years: Beating top-seeded Houston in Game 3 of this first-round Western Conference matchup, which cut the Rockets’ series lead to 2-1, pleased him even more than he had thought it might. “Being in the playoffs, for this organization, that’s big in itself,” Butler said after amassing 28 points, 7 rebounds and 5 assists — as well as a fresh ankle injury to go with a nagging wrist problem — in the Timberwolves’ 121-105 triumph. “To be playing against Houston and a lot of guys I really respect on the opposing team, it means a lot, too. “A team that close to my hometown, to get an opportunity to beat up on them a little bit, I’m taking it.” How much longer the Timberwolves can hang with the 65-win Rockets most likely hinges on the outcome of Game 4 here on Monday night. Chances are Minnesota will not be able to outshoot their longball-happy visitors from 3-point range, as the hosts unexpectedly did in the first N.B.A. playoff action at Target Center in some 5,075 days. But credit Butler and Co. for rebounding nicely from two dispiriting losses in Houston and, at least for the moment, foisting some angst back onto the heavy favorites, whose offense, by typical Rockets standards, has underwhelmed. The Timberwolves were 30-11 at home during the regular season and predictably looked much more comfortable in their own arena than they had in Houston, particularly the postseason newcomers Karl-Anthony Towns (18 points and 16 rebounds) and Andrew Wiggins (20 points on just 11 shots, including four 3-pointers). A resurgent Derrick Rose chipped in 17 points in 21 minutes off the bench, but Butler, as ever, was Minnesota’s tone-setter. He scored 11 points in an aggressive opening quarter after taking just six shots in Game 2 and, more important, played all but two minutes and 34 seconds of the second half despite badly twisting his left ankle shortly before halftime. “Don’t know what you’re talking about,” Butler said in an attempt to shut down questions about his latest ailment. He refused taping or treatment of the ankle and wouldn’t say much about his taped-up shooting wrist, either, insisting that injuries can be blocked out if you “tell your mind it doesn’t hurt.” Not that you’ll find many locals prepared to dispute Butler’s claims. The city is his after Butler, 28, shook off a 17-game absence following surgery on his left knee Feb. 25 to play in the Timberwolves’ final three regular-season games and nudge them into the West’s last playoff berth. The Timberwolves, who had slid from third to eighth in the conference standings and went 8-9 without Butler, watched him pour in 31 points on April 11 in the club’s regular-season finale at home against Denver. That overtime victory sent Minnesota to the postseason for the first time since its 58-win team in 2003-4 advanced all the way to the Western Conference finals. “I’ve played with a lot of All-Stars,” said the Minnesota reserve center Cole Aldrich, who counted Kevin Durant, Russell Westbrook and the Rockets’ James Harden as teammates when he broke into the league with Oklahoma City in 2010-11. “And Jimmy is one of the best — not only on the court but off the court.” Referring to his first season with the Timberwolves in 2016-17, before Butler’s arrival, Aldrich added, “Our culture is a lot better now.” Aldrich grew up in nearby Bloomington, Minn., and was a teenager in 2004 when the Timberwolves — coached by another Minnesota native in Flip Saunders and featuring the star trio of Kevin Garnett, Latrell Sprewell and Sam Cassell — made the best playoff run in franchise history. So, like Butler, Aldrich found himself flashing back to his youth Saturday night. Thanks to a former A.A.U. coach who regularly had access to good tickets, Aldrich said he was a spectator in the lower bowl on May 29, 2004, when the Wolves captured Game 5 of the Western Conference finals against a Los Angeles Lakers squad led by Shaquille O’Neal and Kobe Bryant, and coached by Phil Jackson. It was the Wolves’ last postseason win before Saturday. “A long time coming,” said Aldrich, who never left the bench in this Game 3 but had an enviable vantage point — with his mouthpiece, as always, perched on his left ear — for Minnesota’s uncharacteristically blistering 15-for-27 shooting from deep. According to Ted Johnson, the Timberwolves’ chief strategy officer, only 10 names on the current Timberwolves staff directory were also there in 2004. Not quite remembering myself what to expect from a postseason crowd here, I placed a call before getting to town to the most accomplished player in Timberwolves annals for a refresher. “Leave your coats outside,” Garnett shouted into the phone, during a break from his work as host of “Area 21” for Turner Sports. “It’s going to melt the city. The Target Center will be on fire. The Garnett Center will be on fire.” The ever-passionate Garnett went on to explain that, during the Timberwolves’ run of eight successive playoff berths from 1997 through 2004, he would often joke with his longtime teammate (and future coach) Sam Mitchell that he planned to lobby the organization to officially change the name of the building in his honor. The Timberwolves opted instead for a $150 million Target Center renovation and a draft-night trade with Chicago last June to reunite Butler with Tom Thibodeau, the hard-driving Minnesota coach and team president for whom Butler played in Chicago. The idea was that Butler, along with the subsequent veteran additions of Taj Gibson, Jamal Crawford and another Game 3 standout, Jeff Teague, would show the precocious Towns and Wiggins how to win. Consider Garnett sold. He played briefly with Towns and Wiggins during a second stint with the Timberwolves before he retired in September 2016, and he believes that the club he has affectionately referred to for years as “Sota” boasts one of the league’s brightest futures. “Just imagine the run you can get out of core like this,” Garnett said. “Think about the young talent. These guys have so much potential — and Butler hasn’t even peaked yet. You expect Sota to be one of those teams you talk about like Philadelphia because of their young nucleus.” Said Butler: “As long as we keep growing as a unit, we’ll be here for years. I’m glad everybody came out and showed a lot of love. This is a big fanatic sports town and they deserve nights like this.” The evening began with a vintage strain of “When Doves Cry” blaring over the arena’s sound system just before the opening tip in honor of Prince, while another Twin Cities institution — the 98-year-old Star Tribune columnist Sid Hartman — was settling into his press-row seat. The evening ended with chants of “Wolves in six” from a sellout crowd of 18,978 and the speakers serving up one of Prince’s more celebratory anthems, “1999,” to continue Minnesota’s purge of 13 seasons worth of pent-up postseason emotion. Questions about Towns’ grit, maturity and commitment to defense persist, with memories of his struggles in the series’ first two games against Houston’s constant double-teaming still fresh. Garnett likewise conceded that, for as solidly as Wiggins had played in this series so far, he would benefit from his “motor” regularly revving faster. As a group, furthermore, Minnesota will have to add more bench depth and perimeter shooting to emerge as a true contender. The safest conclusion that can be drawn about the first Timberwolves playoff team in nearly a decade and a half is that Butler has been even better than Minnesota management had hoped. Keep this up, Butler was warned in the locker room, and they’ll start insisting around here that the pride of Tomball, Texas, is referred to as a Minnesotan. “I think they do like me a little bit,” Butler said.