 GRETNA, La. — The man who killed the former Jets running back Joe McKnight in a December 2016 road-rage confrontation was found guilty of manslaughter on Friday by a jury in suburban New Orleans. Ronald Gasser, 56, had been charged with second-degree murder, which carries a life sentence. Manslaughter carries a sentence of up to 40 years. The judge set a March 15 sentencing date. Paul Connick, the district attorney for Jefferson Parish, said in a news release that justice had been served. His assistants who tried the case told reporters they respected the verdict and added that the McKnight family was satisfied with it. The defense attorney Matthew Goetz said he would appeal. “We’re obviously disappointed with the verdict,” he told The New Orleans Advocate as he left the courthouse. Jurors began deliberations Friday afternoon. Defense attorneys had claimed that Gasser feared for his life when he fired from his driver’s seat at McKnight, 28, who was standing at his open passenger-side window. Police said the shooting had followed a five-mile rolling confrontation that began with dangerously aggressive driving on a New Orleans bridge and ended with McKnight being shot as he stood outside Gasser’s car at a suburban intersection. After the shooting, Gasser stayed at the scene. The police questioned him for more than eight hours and then freed him. Gasser’s release ignited protests, and the authorities were accused of letting Gasser go because he is white and McKnight was black. Sheriff Newell Normand of Jefferson Parish, who has since retired, angrily denied that race had played any role in the case. Prosecutors later recounted a painstaking effort to hold Gasser responsible, including an extensive search for witnesses and physical evidence that eventually led to the second-degree murder charge. Prosecutors didn’t deny that McKnight was driving dangerously the night he was killed. In closing arguments, Seth Shute, an assistant district attorney, alluded to witness testimony that McKnight had wove in and out of traffic, cutting off Gasser and others off at high speed. But Shute said Gasser had escalated the danger, taking McKnight’s driving as a challenge. “Mr. Gasser thought that Mr. McKnight had thrown the gauntlet down,” Shute told jurors, later adding: “He followed him off the exit. That was not his exit.” Shute acknowledged that McKnight had a hand on the open passenger side window of Gasser’s car before he was shot. But he said physical evidence had proved that Gasser lied when he told the police that McKnight had lunged at him. Shute cited the lack of gun powder on McKnight’s body as evidence that McKnight had not been close to Gasser. “Joe McKnight was not lunging,” he added, citing autopsy results. “There would be a hole in his deltoid muscle if he was.” Shannon Swaim, another assistant district attorney, summed up the case by telling jurors that Gasser had been the aggressor as the incident drew to a close. But even if he wasn’t, she added, Gasser was not justified in firing. McKnight was considered the No. 1 running back recruit in the country when he came out of John Curtis Christian School in Louisiana in 2006. He signed with the University of Southern California, where he ran for 2,213 yards and 13 touchdowns and caught 66 passes for 542 yards and two scores in three seasons. In the N.F.L., he played three seasons for the Jets and one with the Kansas City Chiefs. He spent a season in the Canadian Football League, playing two games for the Edmonton Eskimos and three for the Saskatchewan Roughriders.