 CHICAGO — White Sox relief pitcher Danny Farquhar was in critical condition on Saturday, a day after suffering a brain hemorrhage while in the dugout during a game. Farquhar passed out in the sixth inning on Friday night after getting two outs against the Houston Astros. He was helped by team medical personnel and on-site emergency medical technicians, and regained consciousness before he was taken to a hospital by ambulance. The White Sox announced that additional testing revealed the brain hemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm. Farquhar was receiving treatment and being closely monitored in the neurosurgical intensive care unit at Rush University Medical Center here. Manager Rick Renteria met with players before Saturday’s game against Houston and updated them on Farquhar’s condition. Asked if the right-hander required surgery, Renteria said, “We’ll see how they proceed and hopefully the outcome is a positive one.” The team said it would provide updates on Farquhar’s health as appropriate, but requested privacy for the family. Farquhar, 31, fainted moments after leaving the mound. Renteria said on Saturday that Farquhar “had a strong heartbeat, a good pulse and was breathing well” when he left Guaranteed Rate Field after passing out. Renteria said no one on the team saw advance signs that Farquhar might be suffering from the condition. The diagnosis stunned his teammates. “Yeah, I mean, it crushes us in this clubhouse,” said James Shields, who started Friday’s game. “And nothing really matters baseball-wise when something like that happens, you know. “He’s definitely stable from what we hear, but he’s got a long way to go and he’s fighting,” he said. Houston Manager A.J. Hinch said some of his players saw Farquhar collapse. “We could see across the way that something was going on,” he said. “As the group went around him, it just became a scary scene.” “Then this morning getting that update, it’s very scary,” he said. Farquhar was selected by Toronto in the 10th round of the 2008 draft and made his major league debut with the Blue Jays in 2011. He is 10-15 with a 3.93 earned run average in 253 career relief appearances with Toronto, Seattle, Tampa Bay and Chicago. The White Sox put Farquhar on the 10-day disabled list. The right-hander Gregory Infante was recalled from Class AAA Charlotte.