 John Tavares scored in a shootout to lift the New York Islanders over the Rangers, 4-3, on Thursday night for their eighth win in their last nine games against their struggling crosstown rivals. Anders Lee, Brock Nelson and Mathew Barzal scored in regulation, and Jaroslav Halak stopped 38 shots to help the Islanders recover after surrendering a two-goal lead in the third period to finish 2-2-0 on a four-game trip. David Desharnais, Mats Zuccarello and Kevin Hayes scored, and Henrik Lundqvist finished with 35 saves for the Rangers, who lost their fifth straight (0-3-2) to fall to 1-5-2. They have just four points, their lowest total after eight games since they started the 1959-60 season at 1-6-1. Back then, teams got a point for a tie and none for losing in overtime, and there were no shootouts. Jordan Eberle also scored for the Islanders in the shootout, and Zuccarello got one for the Rangers. Halak then stopped Mika Zibanejad and Desharnais to secure the win. The Rangers trailed, 3-1, after two periods and pulled within one about 3½ minutes into the third. Brandan Smith rushed up the ice and tried to send a pass across in front to Hayes. Lee got his stick on the puck to block the pass, but Zuccarello swooped in and put it past Halak for his second goal of the season. Smith appeared to tie it with about 7 minutes 53 seconds left when the puck went off his left skate, then off his right one and in. The goal was disallowed after a video review because officials ruled he had kicked the puck in. Hayes tied it about two minutes later, skating down the right side and sending a backhander at a sharp angle as he passed the goal line. The Islanders had a chance in the closing seconds of regulation, but Lundqvist stopped two attempts in close by Josh Bailey. Barzal, 20, gave the Islanders a 3-1 lead with his first career goal early in the second. Barzal, who got his first assist in a loss in Los Angeles on Sunday night, skated around Rick Nash, went in on Lundqvist and chipped it over the goalie’s glove at 1:15. Bailey then retrieved the puck for Barzal, who was playing in his ninth N.H.L. game. With the Rangers’ Chris Kreider off for hooking, Lee got the Islanders on the scoreboard first with their first power-play goal of the season. Lee put a diving rebound of a shot by Ryan Pulock, who was making his season debut, past Lundqvist 2:40 into the game for his third of the season. Desharnais tied it at 5:02 when he tipped a shot by Kevin Shattenkirk from the right point past Halak, scoring for the second straight game. Nelson put the Islanders back in front just 1:04 later, shooting a wrist shot past three players into the upper left corner and past a screened Lundqvist. It was Nelson’s fourth of the season and the 13th first-period goal allowed by the Rangers in eight games. The Rangers nearly tied it with under four minutes remaining in the first when Vesey’s shot got past Halak, but the goalie made a diving stick save.