 The Chicago Bears beat the Panthers on Sunday, 17-3, and they did it with an unconventional game plan. The rookie quarterback Mitchell Trubisky’s final line was eyebrow-raising: 7 passes attempted, 4 completed. It was the fewest passes attempted in a winning effort in the N.F.L. since 2006, when the Panthers’ Chris Weinke also was 4 for 7, in a 10-3 win over the Falcons. It was the fewest completions in a win since 2011, when Tim Tebow was completed 2 of 8 passes in a 17-10 Broncos win over the Chiefs. What do all three games have in common? The head coach of the winning team was John Fox. Fox is not totally averse to the forward pass: He also coached Peyton Manning for three years in Denver. But there have been many not-quite-ready quarterbacks thrust into starting roles over the years, and only Fox steered them away from passing to such an extreme. And successfully. In Weinke’s first game filling in for an injured Jake Delhomme in 2006, Fox let him throw 61 passes. In his next start he threw 28. After those games, both losses, Fox dialed all the way back for the seven-pass game. It resulted in Weinke’s second career win, and first in five years. Delhomme returned the next week, and Weinke never won another game in the league. Tebow, who replaced the Denver starter Kyle Orton in 2011, was never a prolific passer, averaging 24 passes a start that season. But he never had a game quite like that 2-for-8 effort. It worked though, and was the second game in a six-game winning streak that helped the Broncos into the playoffs Fox acknowledged at the time that Tebow would have struggled in a conventional offense, telling NFL.com: “We don’t have a passer. We have a runner. Not to say he can’t pass at all, but we’re recognizing his strengths.” Trubisky is not really a runner. He rushed five times on Sunday, gaining only 3 yards. He averaged 7 carries a game in his final year at North Carolina. “I thought I played really poor,” Trubisky told reporters after the game. “I just have to be better over all.” Trubisky took over the starting role in Week 5 after four weeks of ineffectiveness from Mike Glennon. His passes-attempted figures in his three starts are 25, 16 and now 7. But the Bears are 2-1 in that span and, at 3-4 over all, still in the playoff hunt. A 70-yard completion to Tarik Cohen, which traveled about 30 yards in the air, was the offensive highlight on Sunday. Leaving out that pass, Trubisky was 3 for 6 for 37 yards. Despite his less-than-prolific total numbers, production-wise Trubisky ranks solidly, currently 17th out of 41 quarterbacks who have started a game this season, with a respectable 7.15 adjusted yards per pass. (Glennon ranks 35th.) The 70-yard completion helped, as does Trubisky’s throwing only one interception. In all, the Bears ran only 37 plays in the game, the lowest total this season, compared with 67 for the Panthers. Chicago’s running game hardly broke records, either: Jordan Howard was the only back to get the ball, and he gained 65 yards. That means, of course, that the defense gets most of the credit. It stymied Panthers runners Jonathan Stewart (48 yards) and Christian McCaffrey (10 yards on 7 rushes), and most important, the Bears scored two long defensive touchdowns — both by safety Eddie Jackson, one on a fumble and the other on an interception return — to spot them a 14-0 lead in the first half. In both cases, the Panthers had been threatening to score at the time of the turnover. The Bears can’t count on spectacular defensive plays bailing them out every week, however, and that means one would think Trubisky will have to start passing more eventually. But for now the team is still in the hunt, and fans will certainly take it.