 Now that we have seen enough football this season to have a good idea about which defenses represent favorable fantasy matchups for each offensive position, the remaining N.F.L. schedule is worth looking at. But be warned: Overanalyzing the matchups could lead to bad decisions. For example, Todd Gurley has a brutal remaining schedule. Five of his next six opponents are among the 10 toughest fantasy matchups for running backs, including three in the top five (the Texans, Vikings and Eagles). But for players like Gurley, strength of opponent should not affect how you play him or whether you keep him. Gurley has been matchup proof this season. He even had 20-point-plus performances against two tough run defenses (the Cowboys and Cardinals). On the flip side, strength of opponent could be a significant factor for players who have not performed as consistently as Gurley has. Take LeSean McCoy, who was taken ahead of Gurley in most drafts last summer but who has been up and down this season. With favorable matchups against the Chargers, the Colts and the Patriots (twice) the rest of the way, you might see McCoy right the ship and give his fantasy owners a major boost in the second half. It also won’t hurt that the Bills should now have a more balanced offensive attack after adding receiver Kelvin Benjamin. Before we get too far ahead of ourselves, let’s break down Week 10 from a fantasy perspective. Jared Goff (LAR vs. Texans) — It may be time to accept that the Rams have a high-powered offense, which was on full display in Week 9 against the Giants. Goff led the charge with four touchdown passes as the Rams routed the Giants, 51-17. Goff has more to prove before he can be a locked-in fantasy starter each week, but consider him one against the Texans, who have allowed the fourth most fantasy points per game to quarterbacks (19.3) this season. Tyrod Taylor (BUF vs. Saints) — Taylor has been a top 10 fantasy quarterback in each of the past three weeks, averaging 21.2 F.P.P.G. during that span. What makes Taylor a safer bet than most fantasy quarterbacks is his running ability. His 210 rushing yards are the fifth most among quarterbacks and he has added two touchdowns as a runner. With the former Panthers receiver Kelvin Benjamin set to debut with the team, joining Jordan Matthews, Zay Jones and Charles Clay in the Bills’ receiving corps, Taylor could have an even stronger second half of the season. Also consider: Josh McCown (NYJ at Buccaneers) Jordan Howard (CHI vs. Packers) — Howard had at least 20 carries in four games this season. These days, that makes him a workhorse, as he is one of seven players to do so. He has been productive with those carries, too, topping 12 fantasy points in five of his eight games. The last time he played the Packers, he ran for only 53 yards but scored a touchdown. The Packers yield the fourth most F.P.P.G. (20.9) to the position and have allowed eight backs to top at least 10 fantasy points in eight games played. Carlos Hyde (SF vs. Giants) — With the help of having the second most targets among all backs, and the third most receptions, Hyde has been a consistent fantasy performer this season. He has five games as either a top-15 back or at least a 12-point scorer, and has been held to under 7 fantasy points once. Expect more success against an imploding Giants defense that got mauled by the Rams’ Todd Gurley for over 22 fantasy points. Also consider: Lamar Miller (HOU at Rams) Robby Anderson (NYJ at Buccaneers) — It’s time to take Anderson seriously in terms of fantasy production. I know, it feels weird talking up any Jets offensive player given the last few years of production, but quarterback Josh McCown has found a nice rhythm throwing to Anderson, Jermaine Kearse and tight end Austin Seferian-Jenkins. Anderson has averaged over 12 fantasy points per game over the last three weeks. On the season, he has the 14th most fantasy points among wide receivers. Up next is a matchup with the team that has given up the third most fantasy points to the wide receiver position (25.3 F.P.P.G.). JuJu Smith-Schuster (PIT at Colts) — After flashing signs that he could be a productive N.F.L. receiver for most of the first half, he exploded in Week 8 with 193 yards on seven receptions and a touchdown. Coming off a bye week, there’s no reason to think that Smith-Schuster is not the team’s second receiving option behind Antonio Brown, no matter what the team says about getting Martavis Bryant more involved. A matchup with the Colts should lead to more fantasy success, as they have allowed the second most receiving yards (293.1 per game) and the seventh most fantasy points (23.7 F.P.P.G.) to the position. Also consider: Sammy Watkins (LAR vs. Texans) Cameron Brate (TB vs. Jets) — There’s not a lot of good fantasy news coming out of Tampa Bay of late, with quarterback Jameis Winston expected to miss three games and receiver Mike Evans suspended for Week 10. But even with Ryan Fitzpatrick behind center, Brate should be considered a decent fantasy asset at the thin tight end position, especially in a favorable matchup with the Jets (9.5 F.P.P.G., fifth most). LAR vs. Texans; DET vs. Browns Kai Forbath (MIN at Redskins); Ryan Succop (TEN vs. Bengals).