 It takes 10 minutes to drive from the military checkpoint, where anyone who has a pass to the city must stop, to an ice-filled stadium called Trud (Work). Since the days of the Soviet Union, there have been several dozen closed cities like Lesnoy, a community of 50,000 where access is tightly controlled and state secrets are protected. For decades, those not in on the secrets did not know about these cities at all. Inside, however, citizens were hard at work: developing weapons of mass destruction, processing radioactive materials — and training for the Olympics. According to local officials, the number of Olympians per resident here is a record for the country. Lesnoy has given rise to 46 champions of the U.S.S.R., Russia and Europe, and has produced 11 athletes who competed at the Olympic Games and went home with medals. It was on the ice of Trud, inside this closed city built by Gulag prisoners 70 years ago, that many of them got their start. When you’re walking around the city, which used to be known as Sverdlovsk-45 before the U.S.S.R. collapsed and the city was declassified and renamed, it can seem as if you are in a separate socialist state. There are numerous buildings in the style of Soviet Neo-Classicism, a monument to Lenin and, since the 1950s, an atomic bomb production factory. The main plant, now called the Combine Elektrokhimpribor, is used to assemble and dispose of nuclear ammunition and to produce uranium isotopes. One of every three inhabitants of the city works inside. But it is the Fakel (Torch) Olympic sports school that has made Lesnoy famous. The school trains children from 9 to 17 years old for various sports: speedskating and cross-country skiing and shooting, ice hockey and the rest. Many closed cities developed powerful sports organizations over the years to fill children’s free time; today, there are about 1,000 at the Fakel school. Lyubov Pronina has worked as a speedskating coach in Lesnoy since 1974. “For me, work is my life,” she said. Pronina’s son Sergey Pronin is also a coach. He competed in the Russian championships in 2007 and was a mentor for the youth national team. Vasiliy Pudushkin, a bronze medalist of the first youth Olympic Games in Austria in 2012, was one of his trainees. Pronin’s oldest daughter, Paulina, 15, already has reached the first adult rank in skating. Her sister, Uliana, 5, skates, too. But the Pronin family is not alone in creating its own Lesnoy sports dynasty. “The city is small,” he said. “What else shall we do?” The most significant problem for speedskaters here is the lack of financing. “We have to collect money from parents for all trips and equipment,” Lyubov Pronina said. “A jumpsuit costs 30,000 rubles, and Dutch skates are even more expensive. You can’t win the competition without it!” The ski base is on the outskirts of the city, surrounded by the forest on one side and a barbed wire perimeter on the other. Vladimir Popov was the mentor of many champions, and even though he is retired, he still comes to the ski base to meet with the skiers and their coaches. But Lesnoy is a start now, not a destination. Many athletes in the Fakel school leave the city after finishing high school. Some apply to join national sportsteams, but many of them simply quit professional sports and get on with their lives. “There is nothing to do in the city,” said 16-year-old Lisa Sharova. Even though Lisa’s father was also in speedskating, and helped her get started in the sport, she doesn’t plan to spend her life on skates. “I realized,” she said, “that I’d have a better chance if I became a coding specialist.” For Dmitri Nikishkin, a participant in the Nagano and Salt Lake City Paralympic Games, the situation was different. Nikishkin honed his skiing under the supervision of Popov, while studying at the local university and practicing at the factory. In January 1998, he won a specialized Russian championship at two distances: 10 kilometers and 20 kilometers. But he didn’t get any Olympic or World Cup medals. A year after the Salt Lake City Games, in 2003, Nikishkin quit sports. “I used to come back from camps, see my son and leave again. It was hard. In the end, I decided to finish my career. My son is my main medal.” Isolated from large cities and world news, Lesnoy exists in its own world, with its passes, its competitions — and its problems. “If you ask me about the Russian doping scandal, I will answer: We, in general, don’t care about these political games,” Sergey Pronin said with a laugh. “We just want to buy new skates!” Ivan Chesnokov contributed reporting.