 The members of America’s Billion Dollar Boys Club are feuding over, of all things, a mere millionaire. It seems that the Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones and a committee, led by the Atlanta Falcons owner Arthur Blank, have a serious difference of opinion over how much Roger Goodell is really worth as the N.F.L. commissioner. Jones, who has owned the Cowboys since 1989, making him one of the league’s longest-tenured owners, wants to put the squeeze on Goodell’s guaranteed pay, and he has doubled down on his threat to sue the N.F.L. and some of its owners if they, as expected, extend Goodell’s multimillion-dollar contract in the coming weeks. The compensation committee, led by Blank, has answered with a letter to Jones admonishing his “antics” and threatening sanctions for “conduct detrimental” to the league. What makes this little tiff obscene, though, is that this same group of owners, and this same commissioner, are accused of slow-paying — and in some cases no-paying — former N.F.L. players from an estimated $1 billion concussion settlement agreed to in 2015. The players accused the N.F.L. of hiding the dangers of the concussions that they sustained throughout their career, but in return for settling, the league was allowed to avoid admitting fault. The problem is that the retired players, who sacrificed their bodies for owners who could have (and did) cut them at any moment, now say they are learning once again how difficult it is to crowbar money out of the league. “Players will be shorted what they earned,” Andrew Stewart, a retired defensive lineman with Parkinson’s disease, told my colleague Ken Belson. “This is not a settlement. This is about paying sick men as little as possible.” No, N.F.L. owners are not talking about how, of the 1,400 claims filed so far, only 140 have been approved. They also aren’t eager to talk about how the remaining 90 percent of those claims are in the process of being evaluated, or why many have been sent back to the players and their lawyers to amend before they can be approved. Instead, the owners talk about their free-floating anxiety, and about how the N.F.L. is under siege. But they have no one to blame but themselves. They are the ones who put chronic traumatic encephalopathy into the N.F.L. lexicon alongside special teams and prevent defenses. For decades, they denied that concussions were imperiling the health of their work force. The estimated $1 billion settlement that covers nearly every former player for the next 65 years may not be an admission of guilt, but it is hard to argue when C.T.E. continues to be found in the brains of one dead N.F.L. player after another. Now the N.F.L. is playing hide-and-seek with the money? While fighting about whether to give Goodell another $30 million, or more, to keep the revenue spigots flowing? The owners’ cluelessness in the face of a variety of public relations disasters may have finally reached its peak. First, they swore that they absolutely, positively didn’t blackball quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who was good enough to start games in the league last season but months later was apparently deemed unemployable, even as a backup. And this leaguewide assessment absolutely, positively didn’t have anything to do with Kaepernick’s taking a knee during the national anthem to protest racial inequality, and to prove it they even expressed public solidarity with their players — at least until they quickly changed their minds. This turnabout in the face of presidential criticism just made an uncomfortable situation even worse, but even so they were on the verge of a détente with the players before one of their own, the Houston Texans owner Robert McNair, scuttled that with his “inmates running the prison” remark. Having botched their fight over the anthem, they quickly returned to fighting over money. Jones, the flamboyant owner of America’s team, has two major and self-centered grievances: the perceived rush to compensate a commissioner who can’t get the players to stand up for the national anthem, and Goodell’s decision to banish the Cowboys’ star running back, Ezekiel Elliott, for six games based on an accusation of domestic violence by his former girlfriend. The contract dispute has left the N.F.L. with an intramural squabble at a critical time when the league appears to be slipping in popularity. After all, Goodell is currently paid around $30 million a year, including a set of rolling bonuses that in effect make most of his compensation guaranteed. The new deal is for roughly the same amount, but only if Goodell meets certain performance targets — such as sponsorship and broadcast revenue — that Jones in fact was requesting. In reality, then, this is basically a fight over the change found under the cushions of a $14 billion couch. Is it any wonder that some moms and dads swear they won’t let their kids play football? That ordinary folks, who have been counted on to escape a few hours to watch their favorite team, are turning in their season tickets and turning off their TVs? A staple of those N.F.L. broadcasts is the shot of the owner’s box, where for years men like Jones or Blank or one their 30 other colleagues could treat their friends to drinks and a buffet as they watched their investments grow in value down on the field. They looked like emperors once. Now, they look more like fools.