 GANGNEUNG, South Korea — John Morris and Kaitlyn Lawes of Canada arrived here for the 2018 Winter Olympics as new curling partners. They had been at it for about a month, having teamed up just before the Canadian mixed doubles trials in January. They made it through that meat grinder, then arrived in South Korea hoping for gold. Morris and Lawes delivered for Canada on Tuesday, rolling to a 10-3 victory for a gold medal over Martin Rios and Jenny Perret of Switzerland. The Canadians were so dominant that the Swiss pairing conceded the match after six ends. Matches in mixed doubles are slated for eight ends. “I think the experience we had this year is something we’ll cherish for the rest of our lives,” Morris said. Mixed doubles was a new event at the Olympics — the International Olympic Committee voted to add it to the Pyeongchang Games in 2015 — but when the sport involves ice, brooms and granite rocks, Canada just seems to have a knack for it. Since four-person curling made its Olympic debut in 1998, Canada has never gone without a medal in any event. Morris and Lawes, already gold medalists in team events for Canada at past Olympics, ensured that the trend continued. At the post-match news conference, Morris made an impassioned plea for mixed doubles, describing it as a fast-paced, exciting version of the sport that would only help curling grow. “If someone is going to try curling, this mixed doubles is where it’s at,” said Morris, a firefighter known to his fans back home as “Johnny Mo.” He left much of the scoring wizardry throughout the tournament to Lawes, who gave her team an early advantage against Switzerland with a brilliant shot for four points in the third end. The Canadians continued to apply pressure, and the misses for Switzerland mounted. It turned into a clinic. “It sounds surreal,” Lawes said when asked how it felt to be a two-time gold medalist, “and I don’t know if that’s ever going to sink in.” Canada actually lost its first match of the tournament, to Norway, before rolling to six straight wins in pool play. The medal rounds were more of the same. In all, Lawes and Morris won eight of their nine matches here while outscoring their opponents by 70-33.