 Arizona fired Rich Rodriguez as its football coach on Tuesday after conducting an investigation into allegations of sexual harassment against him, citing “several factors, including the direction and climate of our football program” for the move. Rodriguez, 54, was the subject of a $7.5 million notice of claim filed last week with the state attorney general’s office accusing him of running a hostile workplace. The Arizona Daily Star first reported the notice of claim, which indicates a lawsuit is imminent, after a public records request. Robert C. Robbins, the university’s president, and Dave Heeke, its athletic director, issued a joint statement on Tuesday evening announcing Rodriguez’s dismissal. In the statement, Robbins and Heeke said the university had retained a law firm in October to investigate harassment allegations made against Rodriguez by a former employee of the athletic department. During the investigation, the statement said, the accuser declined to participate or turn over communications that she had said would support her allegations, so the university determined the claim could not be substantiated. “However, Arizona Athletics did become aware of information, both before and during the investigation, which caused it to be concerned with the direction and climate of the football program,” the statement said. Rodriguez posted a statement of his own on Twitter late Tuesday, saying he was “deeply disappointed” to learn of his firing. He also referred to the university “buying out his contract.” He said in the statement that the complaints had been made by his former administrative assistant and that during the investigation he had voluntarily taken a polygraph test, which he said he passed. While he said the claims by the accuser were “baseless and false,” he said the claim “included a single truth” — that he had had an extramarital affair with a woman who was not affiliated with the university. Rodriguez’s dismissal comes amid a wave of sexual assault and harassment allegations that exploded in the aftermath of The New York Times’s investigation into the Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein. The accused have included politicians, the Hollywood elite and, in growing numbers, the sporting world. “We are confident that we will find a new leader of our program,” the university’s statement said, “who will take us to great heights with men and women of character and talent, on and off the field.” The claims against Rodriguez were not explicitly laid out by the university, but The Daily Star reported that the notice of claim asserted that Rodriguez and his associates prided themselves on secrecy, that they claimed Title IX “doesn’t exist in our office,” and that the former employee who accused Rodriguez claimed she “had to walk on eggshells at work, because of his volatility and sheer power over the department.” He reportedly has a $6.3 million buyout in his contract, which was extended to 2020, if he is terminated without cause. Despite the university’s investigation, it remains unclear how much the performance of the Wildcats played into the decision. Arizona, which was 3-9 in 2016, had a strong 6-2 start to the 2017 season, but lost four of its final five games, including a 38-35 loss to Purdue in the Foster Farms Bowl. Rodriguez had previously coached Michigan and West Virginia and recorded a record of 118-83 at those schools and Arizona. It is also unclear whether the 16 high school seniors who pledged to play for Arizona last month during the inaugural early signing period will be able to get out of their commitments.