 The veteran forward Joakim Noah was granted time away from the Knicks after at least one heated argument with Coach Jeff Hornacek, according to two people with knowledge of the dispute. The officially stated reason for Noah’s absence from the Knicks’ last two games was “personal reasons.” But the Knicks and Noah agreed to what amounts to a cooling-off period after an emotional exchange with Hornacek, according to the people, who are not authorized to discuss the situation publicly. The Knicks declined to comment on Monday. The argument occurred at the Knicks’ practice on Wednesday in Denver and led to Noah leaving the team. Talks between the Knicks and Noah, a two-time former All-Star, for him to rejoin the club are scheduled for later this week, according to the people. Hornacek initially announced Noah would miss at least two games, but that will stretch to four if he does not return to the team for Wednesday’s trip to Boston. Noah has already been ruled out of Tuesday’s home date with Brooklyn. In the second year of a four-year, $72 million contract that is widely regarded as one of the biggest financial burdens in the league, Noah appeared in only six of the Knicks’ first 47 games before his ill-fated stint against the Warriors. Noah entered the Knicks’ game at Golden State last Tuesday with 10:09 remaining in regulation and the Knicks trailing by only 10 points despite playing without the injured Kristaps Porzingis. But Hornacek pulled Noah after only 4:31, with Golden State’s lead up to 16 by that stage en route to a 123-111 triumph. Noah was visibly upset after his removal. He attended the Knicks’ practice last Wednesday in Denver but was no longer with the team Thursday, when it absorbed a 130-118 loss to the Nuggets. When asked about Noah last week by reporters traveling with the team, Hornacek said: “We’re not going to comment on that stuff. Personal reasons. He won’t be with us the next couple of games.” Noah, who turns 33 in February, was brought to the Knicks by the former team president Phil Jackson but has been a nonfactor for them. Noah’s first season in New York was marred by a knee injury that required surgery in February 2017, followed by a 20-game suspension for violating the league’s antidrug policy.