 PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — Officials from the Korea Meteorological Administration sat behind microphones in front of an overflow audience of journalists. Interpreters converted the officials’ words through the headsets of those unable to speak Korean. There was anxiousness. People put their thumbs to their phones, ready to share the news on Twitter immediately. It was as if Punxsutawney Phil were making his Groundhog Day weather prediction in a teeming conference room. The message was hardly a revelation: It will be cold at the Winter Olympics. But in this case, it has been bracingly — at times subzero — cold, especially compared with previous Winter Olympics. Sochi, Russia, was freakishly balmy four years ago. So was Vancouver, British Columbia, four years before that. Veterans of these events suggested that Pyeongchang in 2018 might be the coldest Olympics since 1994 in Lillehammer, Norway. “It’s nice to have it finally feel like winter,” said Ida Sargent, an American cross-country skier. “That’s not something we always see, especially in the last few years, with mild winters. It’s fun to embrace winter and remember that we’re winter-sports athletes.” Athletes and coaches were quick to point out that they frequently deal with cold and difficult weather conditions on their international circuits, but placed Pyeongchang among the coldest, along with colder-sounding, more northerly places like Siberia, Finland and Canada. “It’s brutal,” said Nils Coberger, coach of the New Zealand men’s ski team. “It’s not that pleasant, but at least it’s blue sky. But the cold is extreme here.” Cross-country skiers said they would wear long underwear under their skintight suits. Skiers will crowd into the heated start houses to keep loose. Biathletes are experimenting with just the right gloves to wear to keep them warm while giving them the dexterity to load and fire their rifles. “Sometimes when you change to a thicker glove, your hands still freeze,” Tim Burke, an American biathlete, said. “Then it’s kind of a double whammy.” The Winter Games are being held in two places about 20 miles apart — the mountain resort of Pyeongchang, where the opening ceremony on Friday and outdoor events like skiing and bobsled will take place, and the (slightly warmer) coastal city of Gangneung, where indoor-arena sports such as figure skating and hockey will be. Temperatures are rising slightly toward the weekend, but during the past week in Pyeongchang, they dipped below 0 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 18 Celsius). With just enough breeze to keep all the flags twitching, their fabric somehow not frozen, it felt even colder. People were bundled in layers to the point of limited flexibility and identifiability. Reports of viciously cold weather last weekend at a rehearsal for the opening ceremony sent worry through the waves of underdressed new arrivals. Photographs circulated of athletes putting athletic tape on their faces to prevent frostbite on noses and cheeks. The cold’s impact extended beyond people to things. Photographers said that wires used to rig equipment at the outdoor venues quickly became brittle and snapped at the slightest tug. Workers were careful not to step on any cable stretched across the frozen ground, lest it shatter underfoot. There was a report that racing skis were warping in the cold, rendering them useless after one run. The unsung heroes of the Olympics might be the quiet and colorful army of volunteers, many of them young people stationed outdoors in parking lots or in front of buildings wearing matching snow jackets and pants. They are ceaselessly polite, too polite to admit any regret for volunteering to stand in the freezing cold. Some of the tour buses carrying officials and journalists on a Spirograph-like circuit among venues and athletes’ villages and news media villages come equipped with hot coffee. At stops, bus drivers sometimes pour coffee and deliver it to the volunteers outside. For Olympic organizers, however, the most urgent concern was the opening ceremony at the Olympic Stadium, an open-air pentagon of massive bleachers. Spectators will receive bags filled with hot packs, seat warmers and windbreakers, meant to limit the chances of hypothermia, which struck seven people at an hourslong event there in November. The opening ceremony is scheduled to start at 8 p.m. local time and last a swift 2 hours 15 minutes, much shorter than usual. If nothing else, the weather should keep athletes from lollygagging and help limit everyone’s exposure to both the elements and, perhaps, lengthy speeches by officials and politicians. On Wednesday afternoon, the stern-faced head of the meteorological administration predicted that temperatures Friday night would be in the 20s Fahrenheit (minus 2 to minus 5 Celsius), with wind that made it feel like the midteens (minus 10 Celsius). Those are typical conditions for Pyeongchang, the throng at the weather news conference was told. If newcomers were caught by surprise, others knew what to expect. Tom Johnston, an American who is helping oversee the Alpine skiing courses, said it might be the coldest place he has ever prepared for races. The temperatures are low (but, on average, warmer than, say, Lake Placid, N.Y., this time of year), and wind is a steady and silent accomplice. Johnston said it was especially tricky to build a course where the jumps were shielded by berms and stands of trees to block the persistent gusts. Winds are expected to be strong beginning on Sunday, the day of the men’s downhill ski race. For all the anxiety over the cold, there is very little over another element: snow. Pyeongchang gets relatively little accumulation, and there is little snow to be seen on the mountainsides. But the persistently cold temperatures are perfect for snow making. The ski courses, visible from town as curling white ribbons on a backdrop of green, are expected to be in top condition, without worry that a sudden storm will interfere with the course or racing. “If a guy goes first, a guy goes 30th, a guy goes 50th, it’s going to be fair,” said Coberger, the New Zealand coach. “So that’s really nice. That’s what the cold brings.”