 Oregon State Coach Scott Rueck had insulated himself from much of the media coverage leading into the women’s N.C.A.A. tournament. But struggling to sleep at 2 a.m. before Oregon State faced Tennessee in the second round on Sunday, Rueck stumbled upon an ESPN preview article. He noticed a nugget about the Lady Vols having never lost at home in the N.C.A.A. tournament, and he thought, “How often in life do you have a chance to do something for the first time?” After he informed his players at a shootaround about their chance at history, the Beavers went out and added another chapter to their renaissance. The senior Marie Gulich had 14 points and 12 rebounds to lead sixth-seeded Oregon State to its third straight regional semifinal appearance with a 66-59 win over third-seeded Tennessee at Thompson-Boling Arena. The Lady Vols had been 57-0 at home in N.C.A.A. play, with most of those victories coming under the Hall of Fame coach Pat Summitt, who led the team to eight national championships. It was the second straight season in which Tennessee had lost in the second round, and the Lady Vols will miss the round of 16 in back-to-back seasons for the first time in the program’s 37-year tournament history. Tennessee (24-8) and Oregon State (25-7) played an intense game befitting two teams separated by only one spot in the Associated Press poll entering the tournament. (Tennessee was No. 12, and Oregon State was No. 13.) The senior Mercedes Russell finished with 21 points and 14 rebounds in the final game of her Tennessee career. Jaime Nared, a fellow senior, scored 9 points on 3-of-14 shooting. TEXAS A&amp;M 80, DEPAUL 79 The freshman Chennedy Carter hit a 3 with 3.2 seconds left, capping a 37-point performance, to help Texas A&amp;M rally from a 17-point second-half deficit and beat visiting DePaul. Carter had 32 of her points after halftime, and the fourth-seeded Aggies pulled off a stunning second-half comeback for the second consecutive year. It was the largest comeback ever in the second round of the tournament and the fourth largest ever. Texas A&amp;M trailed by two when Carter’s long 3-pointer from the top of the key gave the Aggies (26-9) the lead. Fifth-seeded DePaul had a chance to win it after that, but Jasmine Lumpkin stole the inbound pass from Kelly Campbell to secure the victory and send the Aggies to the round of 16 for the first time since 2014. Carter, who scored A&amp;M’s last 9 points, struggled early, making just 2 of her first 9 shots and scoring just 5 points in the first half. She got hot after halftime, making seven 3-pointers, to allow the Aggies to mount the comeback. Last season, Texas A&amp;M rallied in the opening round from a 21-point deficit to Penn to win. DePaul was led by Tanita Allen, who had 19 points, and Mart’e Grays added 14. LOUISVILLE 90, MARQUETTE 72 Shots began falling again for Myisha Hines-Allen and Asia Durr, a potent combination that has often resulted in good things for top-seeded Louisville. The two certainly had their chances, thanks to the Cardinals’ aggressive philosophy, which overwhelmed visiting Marquette early and built a comfortable cushion that they rode into their second consecutive round of 16 berth, just down the road in Lexington, Ky. Hines-Allen had 24 points and 13 rebounds, and Durr scored 19 points against No. 8 Marquette (24-10). Hines-Allen and Durr combined for 26 points on 12-of-14 shooting in the first half after they totaled just 13 points in a first-round rout of Boise State. Hines-Allen made her first 10 shots and 12 of 16 overall to earn her 16th double-double this season. Marquette could do little to stop Hines-Allen or Louisville on either end as the Cardinals outscored the Golden Eagles by 60-36 in the paint. “Our advantage was inside, and that’s what we tried to do,” said Hines-Allen, who had 11 defensive rebounds. “Once we got the defensive rebounds, we ran in transition too, so we got a lot of open layups, open looks.” N.C. STATE 74, MARYLAND 60 Kiara Leslie had 21 points and 11 rebounds against her former team, and host North Carolina State beat Maryland. Leslie, who spent three seasons at Maryland before graduating and transferring to North Carolina State, finished 1 point shy of a career high. Kalia Ealey and Chelsea Nelson each added 12 points while Akela Maize scored 11 to help the fourth-seeded Wolfpack (26-8) earn their first round of 16 appearance since Kay Yow led an inspirational run in 2007. North Carolina State, which shot 45 percent and was 7 of 14 from 3-point range, will play the winner of Oklahoma State and Mississippi State on Friday night in the semifinals of the Kansas City Region. Brianna Fraser had 17 points for the fifth-seeded Terrapins (26-8), who were held to 37 percent shooting. Maryland’s leading scorer, Kaila Charles, who was plagued all day by foul trouble, finished with 4 points — 14 fewer than her average — on 2-of-8 shooting before fouling out with 2 minutes 29 seconds left. She had scored in double figures in 30 of her previous 33 games. Maryland’s offense, which averages 80 points, had trouble scoring against one of the nation’s stingiest defenses. North Carolina State allows 56.7 points per game, and only one team in the past two months — top-seeded Notre Dame — has reached 70 against the Wolfpack. NOTRE DAME 99, VILLANOVA 81 Kathryn Westbeld, who sat out the first half with a left ankle sprain, entered in the second half, and host Notre Dame found its way to the regional semifinals for the ninth straight season with a victory over pesky Villanova. Westbeld had turned her ankle in Notre Dame’s victory on Friday against Cal State Fullerton. Using the juice provided by her return, the Irish started the third quarter with a 12-3 run and outscored the Wildcats (23-9) by 28-8 for a commanding 73-53 lead after three quarters to move into next Saturday’s regional semifinal at Spokane, Wash., against 14th-ranked Texas A&amp;M. Jessica Shepard had her fourth straight double-double, with 25 points and 10 rebounds, to lead Notre Dame (31-3).