 ESPN executives had some nervous moments during halftime of Monday night’s college football national championship. It appeared that a Georgia blowout, which looked likely, might lead fans to turn the game off. They needn’t have worried. The network announced Tuesday that Alabama’s thrilling 26-23 comeback was watched by 28.4 million people; 27.4 million on the flagship channel, and another 1 million on ESPN2 and ESPNU as part of its “MegaCast” production. Last year’s game was watched on ESPN by 24.4 million viewers, with 25.7 million watching in 2016. Monday’s contest was the fifth-highest-rated college football game ESPN has ever broadcast, and second-highest if the MegaCast is factored in, behind only Ohio State’s victory over Oregon in the 2015 championship game in the inaugural College Football Playoff. The game capped a hugely successful college football bowl season for ESPN, as viewership was up for both its New Year’s Day slate of high-profile games and its entire 35-bowl-game season. “When I look across the landscape of sports properties, it’s hard to argue that, from beginning to end, anything is as compelling as college football,” Burke Magnus, an ESPN executive, said before the game. For the college football playoffs especially, however, scheduling heavily affects viewership. Part of the reason ESPN’s overall bowl ratings are up involves timing: This year both semifinals were played on New Year’s Day, and in the last playoff the semifinals occurred on New Year’s Eve. “This was the first year really that the effort we put in with the commissioners to smooth out the N.Y.E. issue manifested itself in full bloom,” said Magnus, referring to ESPN’s successful effort to move some games off Dec. 31. ESPN should have another good year before scheduling difficulties return. In 2020 the national championship game will not be played until Jan. 13, 16 days after the semifinals, which could cause interest to wane. And in 2021-22 and 2022-23 the semifinals return to New Year’s Eve. ESPN’s ratings success with college football contrasts mightily with trends for the N.F.L., where ratings across all networks were down by 10 percent from last year. Things were only slightly better at ESPN, as its “Monday Night Football” viewership was down by only about 6 percent from last year. Along with a strong slate of upcoming N.B.A. games — national N.B.A. ratings are up a whopping 18 percent so far this season — ESPN’s college football success comes at a crucial time for the company. It is currently being led by an interim president, after John Skipper unexpectedly resigned from the position last month, citing a substance addiction, and its flagship channel now reaches only 87 million homes, down from 100 million six years ago.