 GANGNEUNG, South Korea — The blistering pace on the ice and the atmosphere in the arena were reminiscent of the epic showdown between the United States and Russia in Sochi, Russia, four years ago. That’s where the similarities ended. When the teams met again at the Olympics on Saturday night without N.H.L. players, Ilya Kovalchuk and the Russians put on a clinic — outplaying, outhitting and outclassing the Americans in a 4-0 shutout. The United States must now play in the qualification round on Tuesday, while the Russians finished first in the group and moved directly to the quarterfinals, hoping their dominance puts T.J. Oshie’s shootout performance in 2014 further in the rearview mirror. “After the last game in Sochi, I think you guys are still showing the highlights of Oshie scoring those shootouts, right?” Kovalchuk said. “So hopefully you’re going to change that now.” The Russians Kovalchuk, Pavel Datsyuk and Slava Voynov and United States Coach Tony Granato are the only people back from that game, which had higher stakes because of the N.H.L. talent and with the United States looking to win its first Olympic gold medal since the “Miracle on Ice” in 1980. Granato doubled down after the loss on his pretournament comment that the United States doesn’t “need a miracle” to win. What it might need is better goaltending after Ryan Zapolski allowed four goals on 26 shots, including Kovalchuk’s two backbreaking goals less than 33 seconds apart at the end of the second period and the start of the third. Zapolski also allowed two goals to Nikolai Prokhorkin, a 2012 Los Angeles Kings draft pick. But it was the costly Kovalchuk goal with 0.2 seconds left in the second period that he wanted back. “It was a knuckle-puck, and from a pretty long way away,” said Zapolski, whom Granato confirmed would remain the United States starter moving forward. “The two other goals were really good shots. Good players are able to score goals like that, and those are some of their better players, so they found a way to score.” This night lacked the tense political subtext of the Cold War from their 1980 meeting, the pomp and circumstance of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russian attending and the pressure on the home team in Sochi, Russia, in 2014, but it had the same kind of in-arena atmosphere. American and Russian fans filled Gangneung Hockey Centre and went back and forth with “U-S-A” and the “ROSS-I-YA” chants that made up the background noise at the Olympics four years ago. Entering the game, the Russians looked as if they had better players than the United States, and that showed in each team’s final preliminary-round game. The United States college players who shined in the first two games engaged in the physical play against the Russians but couldn’t make an impact on the score sheet. “They’ve got a really good group over there, but I’m really confident in our squad,” forward Jordan Greenway said. “There’s things we’ve got to work on, mistakes we’ve got to learn from in this game. I’m sure we’ll see them again later in the tournament, and I think the outcome will be a lot different.” The United States rarely generated the kind of quality scoring chances against Vasily Koshechkin that the Russians did around Zapolski, who played all three preliminary-round games. Koshechkin stopped all 29 shots he faced for his first shutout of the tournament, and the Russians flexed their muscles offensively. “We played well,” Kovalchuk said. “We came out strong, we scored first goal, then our goalie make some great saves.”