 MELBOURNE, Australia — Andy Murray and Novak Djokovic arrived here one year ago as the top two seeds at the Australian Open. When both departed before the quarterfinals, it cleared the way for Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal to reach the final, starting a reversal in fortunes that would hold throughout the season. With Nadal and Federer now entrenched as top seeds, Djokovic, a six-time champion here, has the chance to prove spoiler in his first tournament since an elbow injury forced him out of Wimbledon. (Murray also came to Melbourne this week, but has now had surgery on his hip that will keep him out until at least the grass court season in June.) Djokovic, seeded 14th, opens against 63rd-ranked Donald Young, and could face 39th-ranked Gaël Monfils — who was himself ranked sixth a year ago — in the second round. Djokovic’s possible fourth-round opponent is fourth-seeded wunderkind Alexander Zverev, a two-time Masters champion last year. Zverev, 20, has never reached a major quarterfinal, and could have to face his own brother, 32nd-seeded Mischa Zverev, in the third round before facing Djokovic. That quarter is rounded out by fifth-seeded Dominic Thiem — whom Djokovic defeated in an exhibition match Wednesday at the Kooyong Lawn Tennis Club in Melbourne — and ninth-seeded Stan Wawrinka, who like Djokovic has not played since Wimbledon. Wawrinka, who has struggled with a knee injury, put his participation here into doubt Wednesday when he pulled out of an exhibition match. Djokovic is in the bottom half anchored by the second-seeded Federer, who opens his title defense against 51st-ranked Aljaz Bedene. Federer could face seventh-seeded David Goffin or 12th-seeded Juan Martín del Potro in the quarterfinals. That cache of contenders figures to leave the top half relatively open for the top-seeded Nadal, who opens against 81st-ranked Víctor Estrella Burgos. Nadal could face sixth-seeded Marin Cilic in the quarterfinals before a meeting with third-seeded Grigor Dimitrov in the semifinals — the round in which he beat Dimitrov in five sets last year. On the women’s side, Serena Williams is not defending her title as she regains her fitness after childbirth and debilitating blood clotting that followed, leaving the family interests in the hands of Venus Williams, a finalist last year. Venus Williams, the No. 5 seed, was dealt one of the toughest possible opening draws, facing 77th-ranked Belinda Bencic, a teen prodigy whose ranking fell after she had left wrist surgery last year. It could also be a good omen, however: Bencic was Serena’s first opponent here last year en route to an eventual title. Venus Williams’s quarter also includes fourth-seeded Elina Svitolina, a recent champion in Brisbane, and 13th-seeded Sloane Stephens, who won last year’s United States Open but has lost all seven matches she’s played since. Those players are on the bottom half with second-seeded Caroline Wozniacki, who is in the top two in the rankings for the first time since 2012. Wozniacki’s path appears relatively clear, though she could face seventh-seeded Jelena Ostapenko or 10th-seeded CoCo Vandeweghe in the quarterfinals. Top-seeded Simona Halep opens against the wild card Destanee Aiava, and could face the slumping star Eugenie Bouchard in the second round. Bouchard, who reached a Wimbledon final and two more major semifinals in 2014, will slip outside the top 100 for the first time in five years in next week’s rankings. In the third round, Halep could face 27th-seeded Petra Kvitova, a two-time Wimbledon champion. Sixth-seeded Karolina Pliskova and ninth-seeded Johanna Konta are also in Halep’s quarter of the draw. The reigning Wimbledon champion Garbiñe Muguruza, seeded third, rounds out the top half of the draw. She could face a daunting test in the third round from either Angelique Kerber, the 2016 champion, or Maria Sharapova, the 2008 winner. Sharapova, who is returning to Melbourne for the first time since testing positive here in 2016 for the banned substance meldonium and serving a 15-month ban, was an eyebrow-raising choice by the tournament to carry the women’s trophy into Margaret Court Arena during the draw ceremony. Federer held the men’s trophy. Craig Tiley, the tournament director, said that the tournament “needed a former champion” for the task and that Sharapova “deserved the opportunity.” Kerber, the only other past champion in the draw, is playing a tournament in Sydney this week. “In fairness to Maria, the adjudication has occurred on that,” Tiley said of her suspension. Tiley addressed reporters on the court of Margaret Court Arena, the name of which has drawn scrutiny and rebuke after controversial remarks by Court on topics including same-sex marriage and transgender children. Several past and present players expressed disapproval of Court’s comments last spring, but Tiley said he had received “no pushback from the players” about the stadium’s name. “I think it’s clear to us we’re here ready to play,” he said. “We have three arenas with a retractable roof, and we’re in constant communication with players to make sure they’re ready to compete and play on all arenas.”