 New England Patriots tight end Rob Gronkowski was suspended without pay for one game for a late hit on Buffalo Bills cornerback Tre’Davious White on Sunday. With four minutes left in the game and the Patriots leading by 23-3, Gronkowski and White tangled as Tom Brady threw a pass in their direction. White came up with the interception, and after he landed on the ground, Gronkowski dived on top of him, driving a forearm into White’s neck. The Patriots were penalized 15 yards for unnecessary roughness, but Gronkowski, one of the Patriots’ and the N.F.L.’s biggest stars, was not ejected. White was helped to the locker room and placed in the concussion protocol. In a letter to Gronkowski on Monday, the N.F.L. said, “Your actions were not incidental, could have been avoided and placed the opposing player at risk of serious injury.” After the game, Gronkowski expressed remorse. "I definitely want to apologize to No. 27,” Gronkowski told reporters, referring to White. “I’m not in the business of that. I mean, it was a lot of frustration. I was just really frustrated at that moment. It just happened naturally through emotions and frustration. I just want to apologize to Tre’Davious White. I don’t really believe in the types of shots like that. But just the frustration process, the game of football, emotions; it’s just what happened.” He said his frustration had come from the refereeing in the game. “I just don’t understand why there wasn’t a flag” on the play, he said, adding, “They’re calling me for the craziest stuff ever.” Gronkowski was whistled for offensive pass interference early in the second half, a false start shortly afterward, and offensive holding just minutes before he hit White. Gronkowski finished with nine catches for 147 yards, both season highs. The suspension means he will not play for the Patriots (10-2) when they visit the Miami Dolphins (5-7) on Monday night. He will be able to play the team’s last three games, including a much-anticipated showdown, with playoff implications, against the Steelers (9-2) in Pittsburgh on Dec. 17. He can appeal the decision. “It was a nasty and dirty play. I’ve never seen him do that before,” Bills running back LeSean McCoy said. Buffalo Coach Sean McDermott said: “I thought it was a good play by Tre. I wasn’t happy with what ensued after that. I just don’t think that there’s any place for the game in that.”