 Pavel Buchnevich scored two goals, the rookie Boo Nieves had three assists, and the Rangers defeated the winless Arizona Coyotes, 5-2, on Thursday night. Michael Grabner had two goals, Chris Kreider also scored and Ondrej Pavelec stopped 27 shots to help the Rangers get just their third victory of the season in the finale of a six-game homestand, their longest of the season. The Rangers shook up their line combinations and played with a traditional lineup consisting of 12 forwards and six defensemen for the first time in a week. It helped the Rangers defeat Arizona for the eighth straight time, dating to March 24, 2014. Anthony Duclair and Clayton Keller scored, and Adin Hill made 24 saves as the Coyotes fell to 0-9-1. The loss spoiled the return of the former Rangers star Derek Stepan to Madison Square Garden. It was his first game there since he was traded to Arizona along with goalie Antti Raanta in the off-season. Arizona trailed by 2-0 after one period before Duclair got a loose puck in front of the net and beat Pavelec for his third goal of the season at 5 minutes 13 seconds of the second. The Rangers regained their two-goal lead just 46 seconds later as Nieves, called up from Hartford of the A.H.L. on Tuesday, set up Grabner for his second assist of the game. After Hill turned the puck over, Buchnevich took advantage by shooting into the open net for his first career multigoal game, putting the Rangers up by 4-1. Nieves got his third assist on the play. Keller extended his point streak to four games with a power-play goal at 3:52 in the third to pull the Coyotes within two again. Keller leads all rookies with seven goals. Grabner sealed the win with an empty-netter in the final minute. Kreider opened the scoring at 8:01 in the first after he buried a beautiful drop pass from Mats Zuccarello. With 4:03 remaining in the opening period, Buchnevich fired a long-distance wrist shot off the post and in to give the Rangers a two-goal advantage. Nieves got his first career point on the play. Stepan played the first seven seasons of his career in New York and skated in 515 games with the Rangers. Raanta did not play as a result of a lower-body injury. Rangers Coach Alain Vigneault got his 617th career victory, tying Jacques Lemaire for 13th place on the N.H.L. career list.