 LANSING, Mich. — John Geddert, the former United States Olympic women’s gymnastics team coach, is facing a criminal investigation after the final sentencing of the disgraced doctor Lawrence G. Nassar, who molested girls at Geddert’s elite gymnastics club in Michigan. The Eaton County Sheriff’s Office said Tuesday that people recently came forward with complaints against Geddert, 60. The office declined to elaborate on the number of complaints, when exactly they were filed or their nature, citing the ongoing investigation. Geddert until recently owned and operated Twistars, a gym in Dimondale near Lansing where Nassar offered treatments on Monday nights. During Nassar’s two recent sentencing hearings, some victims complained that Geddert was physically abusive, was indifferent to injuries and forced them to see Nassar. One also alleged that Geddert was aware in the late 1990s that Nassar had performed an “inappropriate procedure” on her when she was 16, and her mother and Geddert agreed that Nassar would not treat her in private appointments again. That accuser’s anonymous statement was read in court by a prosecutor. Geddert has insisted he had “zero knowledge” of Nassar’s crimes. In response to lawsuits, his lawyer filed court papers saying Geddert was “just one person in an extremely long line of people who were fooled by Nassar.” Geddert previously was accused of physically assaulting a Twistars employee in 2011. He also was accused of assaulting a gymnast in 2013. He did not face charges in either case. On Monday, the worst sex-abuse case in sports history ended with a third long prison sentence for Nassar — this time 40 to 125 years for molesting young gymnasts at Twistars. The focus will shift to civil lawsuits and multiple probes of Nassar’s actions and those of people around him when he worked for Michigan State University and U.S.A. Gymnastics, the sport’s governing body. Geddert, whose national profile rose while training the Lansing-area standout Jordyn Wieber, was suspended last month by U.S.A. Gymnastics until it completes its own investigation. Geddert coached the “Fierce Five,” who won a team gold at the 2012 Olympics in London. He recently announced his retirement. A spokeswoman for Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette, whose office prosecuted Nassar, has declined to say if Geddert or Twistars is under investigation An astonishing 250-plus women and girls gave statements in two Michigan courtrooms over 10 days of proceedings. Makayla Thrush, who trained at Geddert’s club from ages 7 to 17, said she developed an eating disorder because of Geddert and accused him of becoming so angry that he threw her on top of a low bar, ruptured the lymph nodes in her neck, gave her a black eye and tore the muscles in her stomach, ending her career. “I have been dealing with many mixed emotions the past few weeks, some of it having to deal with the enablers of the abusers trying to get out of their screw-up,” she said in court last month. “There isn’t one bone in my body that doesn’t hate John Geddert for everything he has done to me in my career.”