 The Philadelphia 76ers, winners of 10 games just two seasons ago, advanced to the second round of the Eastern Conference playoffs for the first time since 2012 with a 104-91 win over the Miami Heat in Game 5 on Tuesday. Joel Embiid had 19 points and 12 rebounds, Ben Simmons had 14 points and 10 boards, and the victorious hosts had celebrities, politicians and kids dancing in the aisles, spurred by the presence of the rapper Meek Mill, who was ordered free from prison while he appeals decade-old gun and drug convictions. He was taken from prison by helicopter to Philadelphia, where he rang the ceremonial bell at the start of Game 5. “Welcome home Meek Mill,” the public address announcer declared as wild cheers drowned out the rest. Mill sat courtside next to the actor and comedian Kevin Hart and the 76ers’ co-owner Michael Rubin. “Just having someone that looks out for us, all of us here, it would just mean a lot for him to be back in Philly, in the city of Philadelphia with the fans, especially with a game like that tonight,” Simmons said. Philadelphia, whose maligned rebuild has morphed into the one of the trendiest terms in sports, will play the winner of Boston-Milwaukee series. The Sixers outscored the Heat by 14 in the third quarter to snap a tie game and had fans belting, “Trust the Process!” Goran Dragic was whistled for a technical after slapping Simmons on the backside of his head, and that got the crowd howling early in the third. Simmons kept his cool — the rookie is rarely rattled — and made the Heat pay. J.J. Redick sank the free throw off the technical, and Simmons kicked the ball out to Robert Covington on the possession for a 3-pointer and a 54-48 lead. Redick followed with his third 3-pointer. Redick, who scored 27, sank the dagger late in the fourth that sent confetti flying and team flags waving. CELTICS 92, BUCKS 87 Al Horford had 22 points and 14 rebounds, Marcus Smart made an impact in his first game since mid-March and Boston took a 3-2 series lead. Smart came off the bench and had nine points, five rebounds, four assists and three blocks in his first game since undergoing right thumb surgery. He played 25 minutes wearing a protective splint and had a key assist late from the bottom of a scrum beneath three Milwaukee players. Terry Rozier added 16 points and five assists for Boston. The home team has won all five games in the first-round series. Game 6 is Thursday in Milwaukee. Khris Middleton led the Bucks with 23 points, Jabari Parker added 17 points and eight rebounds and Giannis Antetokounmpo had a series-low 16 points with 10 rebounds and nine assists. WESTBROOK FINED Russell Westbrook of Oklahoma City was fined $10,000 and assessed a postgame technical foul for initiating a confrontation with Utah center Rudy Gobert after Game 4 on Monday.