 KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. — Sloane Stephens has a simple approach to her game these days: “Keep fighting.” That was her mantra, she said, when her United States Open championship last year was followed by a staggering, frustrating and somewhat inexplicable free fall with eight consecutive losses. And those words kept popping into her head Thursday, when she shook off a very slow start to beat Victoria Azarenka, 3-6, 6-2, 6-1, in the semifinals at the Miami Open. Stephens’s opponent in Saturday’s final will be either sixth-seeded Jelena Ostapenko or the American qualifier Danielle Collins, who faced off later Thursday in the other semifinal. “In the first set, I was down but came back and I battled really well,” said Stephens, who is looking to improve to 6-0 in finals. “So I knew if I did that in the second I’d be right in there. I ended up winning a lot of games in a row, and just tried to keep the momentum going.” Stephens dropped the first three games against Azarenka in just 11 minutes. She then won 15 of the final 21 games. “I honestly didn’t feel good at all the whole match,” said Azarenka, a three-time champion at this event whose 11-match winning streak here ended with the loss. “I felt like I was a little bit too slow.” She added: “I just stopped getting to the ball, I stopped hitting the ball the way I should be hitting the ball, and she’s going to jump on it.” It was only the fourth tournament for Azarenka since 2016. She gave birth to a boy late that year — her son’s name, Leo, is scrawled on the sneakers she wears in matches — and returned to play the Mallorca and Wimbledon tournaments last year. Azarenka got a wild-card entry to play Indian Wells, another wild-card into Miami, and was ousted by Stephens in both events. When she will play again is unclear. Azarenka has been involved in a custody dispute for several months and is headed back to Los Angeles, where she makes her home. “I don’t have any news to share with you right now,” she said. Azarenka entered this event ranked No. 186. She will be at least No. 93 when the new WTA rankings come out next week, after having defeated four seeded players to reach the Miami semifinals. “Overall, what I’ve done is not bad at all,” Azarenka said, summing up her four-week return. “To make the progress from one week to another week, barely practicing and barely even eating, not too bad.” The trip to the final comes with a few more significant perks for Stephens, who spent some of her youth learning the game at Key Biscayne. She’s assured the second-biggest earnings check of her career — either $654,380 or $1,340,860, depending on the outcome, a figure exceeded only by the $3.7 million she got from the U.S. Open victory. When the new rankings come out, she will be in the top 10 for the first time. If that wasn’t enough, she’ll also find a place in Miami Open history by taking part in the final. The Open isn’t ending, but it’s moving about a half-hour’s drive north to the Miami Dolphins’ stadium next year. Several players raised in South Florida — including Serena Williams, Venus Williams and Chris Evert — are past women’s champions on Key Biscayne, and Stephens, who is from Plantation, Fla., near Fort Lauderdale, will have a shot at joining them in the final women’s match. “I’m like, What’s going to happen to Crandon Park? What’s going to be here? What’s going to happen?” Stephens said. “There’s so many questions. But I think it’ll be cool. Obviously, to play in front of my friends and family again here for the last time, it feels kind of cool that I’ll be able to close it out in style for them.”