 When Justin Turner smacked the game-winning home run for the Dodgers on Sunday night, announcers, sportswriters, bloggers and fans all called it the same thing: a “walk-off.” Unknown as recently as the 1970s and 1980s, the term walk-off for a game-ending hit has become as comfortable a part of the baseball lexicon as balls and strikes. And it’s spreading. The term’s first published citation was in July 1988, according to William Safire, who was The New York Times’s longtime language maven and who wrote about it a decade ago. The Gannett News Service wrote, “In Dennis Eckersley’s colorful vocabulary, a walk-off piece is a home run that wins the game and the pitcher walks off the mound.” Yes, the Hall of Famer Dennis Eckersley, a pitcher remembered for throwing a famous walk-off to Kirk Gibson in the 1988 World Series — 29 years to the day before Turner’s shot on Sunday night. Eckersley, now a broadcaster, owned up to coining the phrase. “I don’t remember the day I said it, but it just made sense, didn’t it?” he said. “I’m surprised no one said it before that. I hate to be associated with it because it’s like, ‘That’s the guy who gave up the Gibson thing!’ Like I need that.” Now “walk-off” appears in Merriam-Webster and other dictionaries. More than a decade ago, some were already sick of the term. In 2000, Sports Illustrated wrote, “Like crab grass invading someone’s lawn, walk-off has taken root in sports lingo and gotten out of control.” Seventeen years later, it has spread even further. While walk-off was once applied pretty much strictly to home runs, it soon came to be applied to game-ending singles and doubles as well. The first time The New York Times used the term appears to be in 1999, and it did not start regularly appearing in a non-home-run capacity until 2007 or so. In 1951, Bobby Thomson hit the Shot Heard Round the World to beat the Dodgers. In 10 Times articles about the game, the famed clout was described as “the unbelievable finish of the most fantastic pennant race in major league baseball history,” “as insane and as improbable an ending as any ballgame could have” and “the wildest scenes ever witnessed in the historic arena under Coogan’s Bluff.” But not as a “walk-off.” The career record for walk-off homers? Babe Ruth, Mickey Mantle and Stan Musial all had 12. But  Jim Thome had 13. Nowadays there are “walk-off hit by pitches” and “walk-off balks,” as virtually any sudden ending to a game seems to qualify for the term. The Blue Jays-Rangers division series in 2016 ended on a walk-off error. The term has even spread to other sports, like football, where you might hear about a walk-off field goal or touchdown. Less common, but not unheard-of, is the walk-off basket or the walk-off goal. In Japan, the term for such a hit is the even more expressive “sayonara home run.” Though “sayonara” is ordinarily translated as “goodbye,” it has much more finality to it; you would not say “sayonara” if you expected to see a person tomorrow, for example. That makes “sayonara home run” an even more decisive and dramatic term. Despite the evocative charm of “sayonara home run,” “walk-off” seems to be solidly ingrained as the English name. The walk-off, which can be accomplished only by a home team, can electrify a stadium. But for the visiting team that gives it up, it is an especially horrible moment, even when its coiner was on the mound. “For a pitcher, that’s the worst thing that can be,” Eckersley said.