 The University of Arizona announced on Thursday that Sean Miller would remain as its men’s basketball coach despite allegations that he had discussed paying a top recruit $100,000. “At this time, we have no reason to believe Coach Miller violated N.C.A.A. rules or any laws,” the university’s president, Robert C. Robbins, told reporters after a meeting with the Arizona Board of Regents. At the meeting, it was also decided that Miller would coach the team on Thursday night against Stanford. The announcement came on a day of high drama at the university. Hours before the Regents convened an executive session to discuss Miller’s employment, the basketball coach called a news conference on campus at which he read a prepared statement vehemently pushing back against the accusations. He did not take questions. “I have never knowingly violated N.C.A.A. rules while serving as head coach of this great program,” he said. “I have never paid a recruit, prospect or their family to come to Arizona, and I never will.” Miller, 49, is among several coaches and players who have been linked to a vast federal investigation into recruiting improprieties in college basketball. The language in Miller’s contract makes it unclear how much money he is entitled to if he is terminated before its completion. An assistant coach under Miller, Emanuel Richardson, was arrested in September on charges of bribery. Richardson was one of four Division I assistant coaches named in complaints filed by federal prosecutors in the United States Southern District of New York. At the time, it was unclear the extent of what Miller knew about Richardson’s involvement or if Miller himself was involved. Last year, Miller signed a contract extension with Arizona through March 31, 2022. The complaint that was made public in September said that Richardson had accepted bribes for promising to use his influence to steer his N.B.A.-caliber players to retain the services of the financial adviser Munish Sood and the former sports agent Christian Dawkins when they became professionals. Last week, ESPN reported that Miller spoke with Dawkins about paying a top recruit, DeAndre Ayton, $100,000 to sign with Arizona. Ayton did join Arizona, and is a front-runner to be selected first in the 2018 N.B.A. draft. The ESPN report, citing anonymous sources, said the conversation between Miller and Dawkins was captured by F.B.I. wiretaps. Soon after ESPN’s report, the Regents announced Thursday’s meeting for “legal advice and discussion regarding the University of Arizona men’s basketball and the multiple-year employment contract for the head men’s basketball coach.” Miller did not coach his team in a loss on Saturday to Oregon. In his statement on Thursday, he called the news reports “inaccurate, false and defamatory.” “These statements have damaged me, my family, the university, DeAndre Ayton and his incredible family,” he added. N.C.A.A. rules say that players who are suspected of being ineligible should be held out of competition until they are cleared. Arizona said in a statement that Ayton was eligible to play. This year, Miller’s base salary is $1.5 million. His contract also outlines additional compensation, which is standard among college coaches, if the team performs well academically, and includes bonuses for winning the regular-season championship and performing well in the N.C.A.A. tournament. Arizona is No. 19 in The Associated Press rankings with a record of 22-7. The Wildcats are expected to be given a top-four seeding in a bracket of the N.C.A.A. tournament.