 Duke senior Grayson Allen tripped an opponent with his posterior, and North Carolina advanced to the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament final. Both of those things happened Friday night at Barclays Center in Brooklyn, and, depending on one’s priorities, one was more important than the other. Each garnered much attention. No. 12 U.N.C. (25-9) defeated Duke, 74-69, and will play No. 1 Virginia (30-2) on Saturday night for the conference tournament title. No. 5 Duke (26-7) is expected to receive a No. 2 seed in the N.C.A.A. tournament, which begins next week, while the defending champion Tar Heels are likely to be No. 3. The teams split their regular season series, each winning at home. Back to Allen, one of college sports’ most enduring heels. (J.J. Redick and Mike Dunleavy took the game in from the third row, representing the Ghosts of Duke Villains Past.) As North Carolina blitzed up the court late in the first half, Allen leaned his backside into North Carolina’s Garrison Brooks, causing him to fall. Allen has a history of seeming to trip opponents — twice during his sophomore year, once in his junior year, at which point he was suspended for a game and stripped of his captaincy. This time he deployed a hockey move. His reputation was intact. While allowing that Allen is “a very good player,” Brooks, a freshman, said after the game that Allen had deliberately tripped him. “That’s what he does,” Brooks said. “That didn’t surprise me,” he added. “Once you’ve seen it before.” Asked whether it was possible that the trip had been accidental, Brooks said: “You saw him stick his hip out.” After reviewing the play, the referees called over Duke’s and North Carolina’s coaches, Mike Krzyzewski and Roy Williams, to announce their decision. Krzyzewski stepped back first, his placid features betraying simmering rage. The call was a Flagrant 1 foul, indicating excessive contact. Allen and U.N.C.’s Joel Berry II appeared to laugh about it as Brooks hit both free throws to put the Tar Heels up, 34-27. “Any little trip he does, if he puts a finger on somebody, you know they’re going to react,” Berry said after the game. He added, “I just told him that you’ve just got to watch yourself because anything you do like that you know they’re going to get on you about. That’s why we laughed it off.” Krzyzewski was hardly amused. He shouted at the refs after the halftime buzzer sounded. At a postgame news conference, Allen said, “They got a fast break and I bumped him and fouled him.” Krzyzewski added that he was “surprised” the referees had stopped play to review the foul. When Allen was asked to clarify whether the foul had been deliberate, Krzyzewski stepped in, saying: “Any foul in a game is not — you don’t want any foul in a game. So that was another foul in a game. Do you think that that was the only time someone was hipped in the game? “If you look in the low post, that’s going on all the time,” he said. “So it happened at half court, they got it, it’s done, and that didn’t win or lose the game.” After halftime, U.N.C. looked likely to build on a 1-point lead. Luke Maye, a fan favorite ever since he made a shot to defeat Kentucky in last year’s N.C.A.A. tournament, had 6 points and an assist in the first five minutes, helping establish a 9-point lead. Duke kept the game in range for a time. When Berry hit his third 3-pointer of the night to put the Heels up 12, Allen immediately responded with one of his own. It is pretty tough to pull away from Duke’s explosive offense, which features Allen and four freshmen who could be picked in the N.B.A. draft’s first round this year. The freshmen are led by Marvin Bagley III, a lefty as fast as he is big, with a soft touch around the basket. He finished with 19 points and 13 rebounds. Freshman Gary Trent Jr. led all players with 20 points. Allen had 16 points and four assists. The Tar Heels are constructed around a trio of upperclassmen — Berry, his fellow senior Theo Pinson and Maye — anchoring a deeper roster. Maye, a fan favorite, finished with 17 points and 10 rebounds. Pinson, a 6-foot-6 forward, had the game’s best passes, taking the ball inside and niftily whipping his wrists to kick it out to Berry or resident sharpshooter Kenny Williams for 3’s, and led his team with seven assists. Sure enough, Duke fought back from a deficit as large as 15 so that with less than a minute left, they were down just 3. Allen had the chance to tie it on a designed play in which he went up for a 3 while guarded by Maye. He pump-faked to try to draw a foul, but Maye did not bite, and Allen’s shot caromed off the backboard. Reflecting on his team’s one meeting with Virginia this season, a 61-49 defeat at Charlottesville, Roy Williams said, “They are the No. 1 team unanimously, and they beat us by 77 points or whatever it was. So we’ve got to go in there and try to play the perfect game. If we try to play the perfect game and play as close as we can possibly play to that, then we’ll have a chance to win.” Meanwhile, Krzyzewski sounded notes of optimism for his young team, noting that the coaching staff had installed new wrinkles into Duke’s zone defense just this week. “There’s going to be a game like this where it’s kind of disjointed for us. But overall they’ve gotten better,” he said. He added: “I think we have a chance to do well in the tournament, and we have to learn from every time we go out on the court. And these guys will. They accept responsibility for everything.”