 Patrick Reed, who played college golf at Augusta State University, looked in command on a familiar course that caused problems for several other contenders, including Jordan Spieth, who lost his two-stroke advantage after Thursday’s round with a double bogey right on the first hole. Reed, on the other hand, finished with nine birdies to shoot 66, the low round of the day, for a two-shot lead over the Australian Marc Leishman (-7) heading into the weekend. Spieth recovered on the back nine to finish at four-under par, tied for fourth with Rory McIlroy, who shot 71. Henrik Stenson, who has never finished in the top 10 at the Masters, is alone in third place at five-under par, while the P.G.A. Tournament champion Justin Thomas shot a 67 to move into a tie with Dustin Johnson for sixth place at three-under. Tiger Woods (+4) struggled again Friday, as did Phil Mickelson, who shot 79. But both did enough to make the cut at five-over par. Woods was fighting it all afternoon as he never seemed to find a rhythm. He hit into bushes on the fifth and had to take a drop, which resulted in a double bogey. He did manage to birdie both of the par 5s on the back nine, something he was unable to do Thursday, but a bogey on 16 dropped him back to four-over for the week. Conditions were tougher than on Thursday, with a stronger wind, and Woods was battling all afternoon. He never seemed to find a rhythm. Woods’s front nine was still not as bad as Spieth’s. The Day 1 leader shot 6s on the first two holes, then bogeyed the seventh to card a 40 before making the turn. But he was able to right himself on the back nine, birdying the par 5s, and is hardly out of it, especially with an inclement forecast for Saturday. But it will take a lot to overtake Reed, the confident Texan who played nearly flawlessly on Friday. After finishing tied for second at the P.G.A. Tournament last year, the five-time winner on tour was sensational with his short game and took advantage on the par 5s, birdying all eight of them through the first two rounds, something no other player had done. Augusta had not been good to Reed before. He has never finished better than 22nd at the Masters in four previous tries. But this year, he looks right at home. His birdie streak ended, but Patrick Reed still managed the low round of the day, a 66 that takes him into the weekend with a 2-stroke lead over Marc Leishman at -9. It was an impressive day for Reed, who missed the cut at the Masters last year when he was nine-over par. This year has been the mirror opposite. Three times on Friday he birdied three holes in a row. His putting has been spectacular. We’ll see if he can keep it up with rain in the forecast tomorrow. It had to end this way, of course. Tiger Woods needed an inch here, or a foot there, all day during Round 2, but Augusta wouldn’t oblige. And so it went on the 18th hole, when Tiger needed a birdie to put more breathing room between his score and the cut line. It wasn’t to be. His birdie shot, yep, just missed, and he settled for par to finish at +4. It will be enough to enable him to make the cut, barely, which is anticipated at +5. He missed some putts and seemed to have issues with his distance control throughout the round. He did birdie both par-5s on the back nine, which was an improvement from yesterday, when he did not make a single birdie on any of the par-5s. Woods came in with a lot of hype, after strong showings at the Valspar Championship and Bay Hill. But it was his first time playing at Augusta since 2015 and clearly there is still some rust to shake off. That being said, he did enough to give himself a chance to compete this weekend. Patrick Reed is the first to double digits under par with another birdie — this time it’s his third in a row — on the par-5 15th. He is the only player to birdie all four of the par-5s at Augusta two days in a row. That’s a good formula for success at the Masters, which is partly why he holds a three-shot lead. Tiger wanted this one. His birdie shot just missed, and his entire body expressed disappointment. Bent head. Bent knees. Slumped back. After making par, Tiger remains at +4. Tiger has made the cut in four of his six events this season. Tiger’s stay at +3 was shortlived after he bogeyed the par-3 16. He drops back to +4. The final two holes — both pars for him on Day 1 — will be stressful for anyone planning to spend the weekend watching Tiger play golf. The projected cut line is +5. Reed responds with a wedge shot from 129 yards within three feet for a tap-in birdie — his second in a row — to take him to -9 after 14 holes and six-under for his round. He has a 2-stroke advantage over Leishman, who just missed a flat birdie try on 16. Leishman answers with an eagle on the par-5 15th. His second shot from 224 yards, carrying the water, may be the shot of the day as it rolled to within six feet of the cup. He tapped in the putt and is now just one stroke behind Reed at -7. Tiger birdied the final par 5 of the day after an impressive approach shot, bringing him to three-over par. The two holes Tiger has birdied today — 13 and 15 — were pars for him on Day 1. Reed’s drive on the par-5 13th veered way out to the right and deep into the pinestraw amongst the trees. He recovered with a nice easy 100-yard shot that clipped a branch but still landed safely in the fairway. Needing a great pitch onto the green, he was left with a tricky 14-foot downhill putt that he buried to take a three-shot lead at -8. After a great drive on the 14th hole, Tiger Woods hit his approach long (again). A 30-foot downhill putt for birdie is off by a couple inches, leaving a tap-in for par. Woods remains at +4. After a solid drive into the first cut on the right side, Tiger Woods put himself on the green in two on the par-5 13th hole. He two-putts for a birdie ... and a smile. It’s his first birdie of the round and he’s now back at +4. Woods’s game picked up after No. 13 yesterday so it’ll be interesting to see if he builds any momentum. Marc Leishman, playing with Tiger Woods on No. 13, cut into Patrick Reed’s lead with a solid birdie. Leishman’s now -4 for the day tied with Reed, John Rahm and Dustin Johnson for lowest round. Just like he did on Thursday, Tiger Woods dropped his tee shot into the pond on the 12th hole Friday. Same fade, same result. After taking a bogey, Woods is now at +5, which puts him right on the current cut line. He’ll need a birdie or two to make sure he has a tee time on Saturday. Tiger Woods manages another par on the front side of Amen Corner. He hit a terrible tee shot, but scrambled again with an incredible third shot, which put him about 5-feet from the pin. He’s still at +4 heading into No. 12. Patrick Reed blasted a 245-yard second shot onto the green at the par-5 eighth hole, leaving him with an eagle putt. He missed that but tapped in for another birdie, his second in a row and fifth of the round so far. Now at -7 and two strokes ahead of Leishman and Hoffman as he starts to make the turn. Dustin Johnson finishes his second round with a birdie at 18 to post a 68, tied with Jon Rahm for the lowest score for any golfer so far today. Conditions (wind, firmer greens) have made the afternoon more difficult than yesterday. But Johnson, who missed the Masters last year, is now in a tie for seventh at -3. After putting together a good drive and a decent approach (finally), Tiger Woods was looking at a 25-foot putt with a huge break for birdie. He misread it a little and settled for par. But his posture has changed considerably after a tough start. He’s headed to Amen Corner, where he struggled yesterday, so we’ll see if he can stay positive. After starting the day with a two-stroke lead, Jordan Spieth ended it two strokes behind Patrick Reed at -4. But it was not a total disaster for the 2015 Masters champ. After shooting 40 on the front, including a double bogey right out of the gate, Spieth went two-under on the back nine. He had a birdie look at 18, a hole he bogeyed yesterday, but wound up with a par. All told, it was a 74 for Spieth, who is still very much right in the mix. Patrick Reed has the lead alone again at -6. He birdied the first three holes, then dropped a shot after missing a two-foot putt on the par-3 fourth. But he got it back with a 13-foot birdie putt on No. 7. He hasn’t had a putt of more than 16 feet today. Just amazing accuracy with his irons. After hitting a massive drive down the middle of the fairway on the ninth hole, Tiger Woods left his approach way short — after hitting over the previous three greens. He overcompensated on his chip up, leaving himself a testy 20-footer straight downhill. He drained it to stay under the cut line, which is currently at +5. Dustin Johnson was quietly making a move after a 73 on Thursday. He was three-under on the day when he got to the green at the par-3 16th looking for another birdie with a short putt from just off the fringe. But his putt trickled past the hole and kept going. And going. And going. He wound up with a 44-foot look for par. And wouldn’t you know it? He sunk that one. Still at -2 and three shots back with two to play. Tiger Woods has been unable to take advantage of the par 5s at Augusta so far. After a great flop shot gives him a makable birdie putt on the eighth hole, Woods misses the putt to stay at 4-over par. Right now, he’s grinding just to stay below the cut line. He’ll need some birdies on the back nine. Tiger Woods went with the 3-wood on seven and hit a nice drive. But his approach, again, went over the green. Distance control has been, well, not great. He was left with a treacherous downhill putt from the fringe and he missed by about five feet. He made that to save par. Tiger remains one stroke below the cut line, which is currently at +5. Don’t forget about Jordan Spieth. Another birdie for Spieth, this one after a nice putt on No. 15, has the first-round leader back in the hunt. Spieth is 2-under on the back nine and just one stroke behind the leaders. Tiger Woods flies the green again on the par-3 6th. He had a tough pitch, considering that if he went even a hair too long the ball could roll off the green for miles. But he handled it nicely. Seems to be confident with his chipping game. It’s everything else that’s a problem. A par for Woods keeps him at +4. He’s 10 shots off the lead. Back to Earth for Patrick Reed after three straight birdies to start the day. He misses the green on the par-3 fourth and leaves himself with 15-footer for his par. He can’t make it, and he’s back to a tie with Marc Leishman for the lead at 5-under. Disaster strikes at the fifth. A 3-wood off the tee went into the gallery along the right, and then Woods’s second shot flew off the left side of the green and into a seemingly impregnable wall of bushes. It looked like the outfield walls at Wrigley Field. It took several minutes just to locate the ball; even Marc Leishman and Leishman’s caddy were enlisted to help. Finally, Woods found his ball but had to take an unplayable lie. So his fourth shot — still needing to hack it out of the bushes — found the sand. By the end, it was a double bogey for Tiger. And now we’re on “cut watch” for Woods. Patrick Reed matches Marc Leishman with birdies on 1, 2 and now 3! That puts him at 6-under and in sole possession of the lead. Reed, 27, has five wins on Tour and a second place in the PGA in 2017, but has never been better than 22nd at Augusta. Tiger Woods struggled with what club to use on the 240-yard par-3 fourth, as the wind picked up and he seemed caught between clubs. He wound up hitting over the green and beyond the tee boxes of the fifth hole. That left him with a difficult chip back onto the green for the up-and-down to save par. But after missing that makable putt on 3, Woods manages to clean up this one. And he remains at +2. Rory McIlroy rips off birdies at Nos. 13 and 14, and he’s now a stroke back of Marc Leishman and Patrick Reed. At No. 13, he sank a 7-footer, and on 14, a 25-footer. Patrick Reed had birdies on the first two holes and joins Marc Leishman at the top at 5-under. A fine bunker shot on No. 2 led to a mere 4-foot putt for the birdie. Rafael Cabrera Bello’s wild up and down day hits a big, big down, as he makes a double bogey on 11. His first two shots on the par-4 were all right, but then he muffed a chip and three-putted from there, missing from 6 feet. Ouch. He’s back at 2-under. The final group of the day is Patrick Reed, Charley Hoffman and Adam Hadwin; coincidentally all three were in contention at 3-under. And after one hole, Reed has stepped forward with a birdie to go to 4-under. Par for Hadwin, bogey for Hoffman. Marc Leishman: three straight birdies to start the day. He nearly reached the green in one on the par-4 third, chipped to three feet and made the putt. He’s now at 5-under par, alone at the top again. On the 350-yard third hole, Woods nearly drove the green, then pitched it nicely up to within seven feet. His slightly downhill putt wasn’t the easiest but certainly still makable. But Woods missed. That’s a tough one. He’ll be kicking himself for that. Marc Leishman has company at the top. Rafael Cabrera Bello makes his fourth birdie of the day on 10 (against three bogeys) with a 40-foot putt. What a day for him. Woods will try to get that shot back on the par-5 second hole. His drive hits a tree, but takes a Tiger bounce and lands in the fairway. He’s behind his playing partners and still has 330 to go to the green. So he can’t make it in two, and his second shot winds up 75 yards or so from the green. He makes it to the green in 3 but is still 30 feet away. The long putt glides four feet past the hole, and he gets the par. Meanwhile, playing partner Marc Leishman has started birdie-birdie to take the outright lead at 4-under. Remember all those guys who looked like contenders when the day began? Spieth? Kuchar? McIlroy? Well, the three leaders on the course are now Rafael Bello Cabrera, Bernd Wiesberger and Marc Leishman. Kuchar was the latest to fall away with a bogey on the 12th hole. He missed the green on the par 3 then hit a poor chip and two-putted. Tiger Woods smacks his opening shot 340 yards down the fairway, far outdriving his playing partners. That leaves him less than 100 yards to the hole, but he hits the iron shot too hot, bouncing the ball off the green, and leaving himself with a tricky up-and-down. His third shot is a miss: It hits the edge of the green and just dies, leaving him with 20 feet for par. He misses the par putt by a few inches and starts off poorly, with a bogey. Things are going wrong for several of the leaders. A bogey for Bernd Wiesberger, a bogey for Rickie Fowler, and now the only players on the course at 3-under are Wiesberger and Matt Kuchar. They are in a six-way tie with four players who haven’t started yet. Bill Pennington: Fowler was briefly tied for the lead about 30 minutes ago. He’s dropped back a stroke, and his Masters history is not so encouraging. He’s playing his 28th round at Augusta National today and he’s five-over par cumulatively in those rounds. Best finish in the tournament is a tie for fifth four years ago. Three times he has been outside the top 25 and in 2016 he missed the cut. Phil Mickelson’s tee shot on the 9th hole was so far to the right he disappeared into the woods looking for it. He found the ball and tried to pitch out but his shot smacked solidly off the trunk of a tree. The crack of ball meeting bark resounded across the hole. Mickelson went deeper in the woods and had to take a stroke for unplayable lie. Then Mickelson knocked his fourth shot close to the green but just below it. His flop shot from there was short, his long double bogey putt ran past the hole and Mickelson finally sank a nervy downhill putt to end a disastrous hole. He began the hole tied for 7th, now he’s tied for 26th. Jordan Spieth, the Day 1 leader, started double bogey-bogey, but righted his ship with a run of four pars and reclaimed a share of the lead for a while. Alas, he found a trap with his second shot on No. 7, and couldn’t get up and down. A bogey, and he’s two back now. Breakthrough! We have a solo leader at 4-under and it’s ... Bernd Wiesberger? Yep, Wiesberger made a 15-footer for birdie on No. 3 to go to 2-under on the day. Wiesberger, 32, has a few European tour wins, but has never been better than 15th at a major. Rickie Fowler rolls in a 25-footer on the par-5 eighth and joins his playing partner Matt Kuchar, and many, many others, in the lead at 3-under. Kuchar’s own birdie putt, which would give him the solo lead at 4-under, is missed by less than an inch. Kuchar had been on the green in 2, so that’s a bit of a disappointment. Bill Pennington: There’s currently about an 85 percent chance of rain by 10 a.m. Saturday in Augusta, with the rain continuing until early evening. Are you ready for the prospect of a Masters Sunday that begins in the morning so dozens of golfers can play 27 to 36 holes? Hey, Bernd Wiesberger, join the leaders! The Austrian made a 7-foot birdie putt on the par-5 second hole to go to 3-under as well. Bogey-birdie-bogey-birdie. Rafael Cabrera Bello of Spain keeps joining the leaders, then falling back. He’s back among them now after dropping his 175-yard second shot to within a foot of the pin on the fifth hole. He has three European PGA Tour wins, but none stateside. Bill Pennington: There are a lot of good golfers — Stenson, Reed, Fleetwood, Watson and some guy named Woods — who will tee off in the afternoon. Temperatures are expected to warm up a few degrees to the high-70s. They may have the most favorable conditions today. A wild day on the leaderboard. The now six-man group tied for the lead at 3-under is followed by a nine-way tie at 2-under including McIlroy, Mickelson, Fowler, Tony Finau, Cabrera Bello, Bernd Weisberger, Louis Oosthuizen, and two who haven’t started, Zach Johnson and Marc Leishman. Bill Pennington: While most of the attention has been on McIlroy, Mickelson and Spieth, Dustin Johnson has three pars and an eagle on the par-5 second hole. He’s at 1-under for the tournament. Let’s not forget that Johnson was the runaway Masters favorite last year until he slipped on a stairway at his Augusta rental home. And Rory McIlroy’s mercurial round continues with another bogey on No. 6. He missed the green on the par 3 with his tee shot and could only chip to 20 feet, where he missed the putt. Rafael Cabrera Bello’s time among the leaders was brief. A tee shot in the bunker led to a bogey on 4. Seven at the top again. He’s not part of the leading eight, but Rickie Fowler sank a 65-foot putt to save par on the par-3 sixth after blowing his second shot from the trees way past the hole. That kept him at 2-under, a stroke back. A seven-way tie for the lead not enough for you? How about eight? Rafael Cabrera Bello puts a chip within a foot and makes the putt for birdie on No. 3. He’s in there at 3-under as well. Matt Kuchar landed in a greenside trap on 5. After four straight pars, he is once again threatening to go the wrong way. His sand shot goes to 8 feet, and he misses it. But he doesn’t lose the lead; McIlroy also bogeyed, and there is a seven-way tie for the lead at 3-under. The leaders: Kuchar, who is one over on the day; McIlroy, with two bogeys and two birdies but no pars today; Spieth, who is three over on the day; and four guys who haven’t started: Henrik Stenson, Patrick Reed, Charley Hoffman and Adam Hadwin. Jordan Speith has a 10-footer to gain back a stroke, but it grazes the lip. Still, the par on 3 is better than he has been doing and he stays at -3. Jordan Spieth’s nightmare start continues. After a second wayward tee shot, he three-putts No.2 for another bogey and falls out of the lead. McIlroy and Kuchar are now tied at the top. And it’s all happening right now! Birdies on 2 and 3 bring Rory McIlroy up to 4-under. The birdie on No. 3 came courtesy of a big drive, a chip second shot on the par-4 hole, and a short putt. He’s tied with Matt Kuchar on top. Co-leader Matt Kuchar dumps the ball into the crowd behind the green on the par-3 fourth and could be in trouble. He has to pick up because the ball is behind the grandstand and drops it without penalty. He’s still far off the green, but his second shot is beautiful, leaving him with a 3-foot par saver. Phil Mickelson is the only player among the contenders who is under par for the day. He’s looking at a birdie putt on No. 3 that could tie him for the lead. He misses that 10-footer, but is still in strong position a stroke back. Li Haotong, who was among the leaders yesterday, has had nothing but trouble today. The 22-year old from China double-bogeys the seventh hole to fall out of contention into the green numbers. Li’s double came in part because of a terrible bunker shot that wound up on the 17th hole, not a good place to be when playing No. 7. He’s gone from -3 to +1. The tournament leader, Jordan Spieth, tees off, playing with Alex Noren and Louis Oosthuizen. And it’s an unfortunate start as his tee shot goes well right. His second shot doesn’t get much farther and his third does not reach the green. The end result is a double bogey. Yikes! A nightmare start for Spieth, now tied for the lead with Matt Kuchar. Rory McIlroy also started with a bogey, but Phil Mickelson birdied the second and is just a stroke back. Though Matt Kuchar was in second place and Rickie Fowler was 2-under, you get the sense that many in the big crowd for the latest group are there to see Phil Mickelson, also at -2 and playing some strong golf recently. Hole No. 1 doesn’t go smoothly for any of the three. Kuchar and Mickelson miss the fairway, and Fowler misses the green with his second shot. Kuchar and Mickelson save their pars, but Fowler misses a 10-footer and slips to 1-under. The course is playing tough across-the-board so far. No one’s really making a move so far this morning. Li Haotong just dropped a stroke on No. 4, Tony Finau bogeyed the first, and none of the other players under par who have started have gained any ground. Some of the leaders are about to hit the course though: Matt Kuchar (-4) goes at 10:31, Rory McIlroy (-3) at 10:42 and Jordan Spieth (-6) at 10:53. How about Fred Couples? At 58 years old, the 1992 Masters champion scratched out a par round on Thursday (one shot better than Tiger Woods) and is still par on Friday through three holes. And he’s playing while wearing a back brace. Couples was 18th last year and sixth as recently as 2010. Tony Finau opens up his second round with a bogey. That’s how he started Round 1 as well, before racing to a 68 and second place. Finau drove into a bunker, but got his third shot to within 4 feet. Then he missed the gimme putt. That bogey knocks him out of second place for now.