 While many traditional fantasy football leagues ended after Week 16’s games, Week 17 isn’t as lame as it used to be for fantasy players, thanks to daily fantasy sports and a growing number of alternative league formats. For those still creating fake teams, we have you covered. The most important thing to keep in mind is the N.F.L. playoff picture: Players on teams with something to play for are most likely to play four quarters on Sunday. Teams with nothing left to accomplish in the regular season, like the Los Angeles Rams, may rest their starters, so you may want to pass on quarterback Jared Goff, running back Todd Gurley and others in Week 17. The Chiefs have announced that quarterback Alex Smith will sit in favor of the rookie Patrick Mahomes. Cam Newton (CAR at Falcons) — While the Panthers have locked up a playoff spot, there is still plenty to play for, as Carolina can move up to the No. 2 seed with help from other teams or fall as far as the No. 5 seed with a loss. Newton was a letdown for fantasy owners in Week 16 against the Buccaneers, but he has a chance to finish strong against the Falcons, who allow the 10th most fantasy points per game (17.1) to quarterbacks. Newton topped 20 fantasy points against the Falcons in Week 9, thanks to a season-high 86 rushing yards and a rushing touchdown. Tyrod Taylor (BUF at Dolphins) — The Bills’ playoff hopes are alive. They need to beat the Dolphins and for the Bengals to defeat the Ravens; they can also sneak in should the Ravens, the Jaguars and the Raiders all win. Taylor’s 281 yards against the Patriots last weekend were his second most this season. The week before, against the Dolphins, he had a season-high 23.2 fantasy points. Also consider: Blake Bortles (JAC at Titans) Alex Collins (BAL vs. Bengals) — A victory for the Ravens will lock up the No. 5 seed, and a loss could lead to no postseason, depending on other outcomes. He has been disappointing from a fantasy perspective over the last two weeks, averaging 2.3 yards per carry and combining for 11.8 standard fantasy points. Still, he has averaged 19 touches per game in the past two games, and the matchup with Cincinnati is very favorable, as the Bengals have yielded the third most F.P.P.G. to the position (20.6). Melvin Gordon (LAC vs. Raiders) — He has been on a major roll, averaging 18.7 F.P.P.G. over his last three games, including a rushing touchdown in each, and the last time he played the Raiders, in Week 6, he had a monster performance, with 27 fantasy points, two touchdowns and 34 total touches. The only problem? He injured his ankle last week and is questionable for Sunday. If he is out, consider his backup Branden Oliver as the Chargers must win to have any chance of making the playoffs. Also consider: Alvin Kamara (NO at Buccaneers) Julio Jones (ATL vs. Panthers) — Fantasy’s sixth best receiver based on F.P.P.G. (10.6) had his first impactful fantasy performance last week since his 38.8-point monster in Week 12, totaling 149 receiving yards against the Saints. He was targeted 12 times and put up 118 yards against the Panthers in Week 9. As a team, the Panthers have given up the fifth most F.P.P.G. to receivers (23.3). You can bet on Jones being heavily involved in Week 17 as the Falcons are in the postseason with a victory. T.Y. Hilton (IND vs. Texans) — The only player highlighted this week on a team that was out of playoff contention a long time ago, Hilton and the 3-12 Colts are actually a 3.5-point favorite at home against the 4-11 Texans. Hilton had nearly 30 fantasy points against the Texans in Week 9, and is coming off six receptions for 100 yards in Week 16 against the Ravens. Also consider: Keenan Allen (LAC vs. Raiders) Rob Gronkowski (NE vs. Jets) — When do you ever question starting Gronk? Well, in Week 17, that’s when. But this year, you should be safe rolling with fantasy’s top tight end play, at least for the first half, as the Patriots still need a victory over the Jets to earn the No. 1 seed and home-field advantage throughout the postseason. Also consider: Vernon Davis (WAS at Giants) PIT vs. Browns; BAL vs. Bengals Justin Tucker (BAL vs. Bengals); Matt Bryant (ATL vs. Panthers).