 Rafael Nadal has been the face and body of a Tommy Hilfiger underwear campaign. He has been a shirtless love interest in a Shakira music video. He is not bashful on the tennis court, either, taking off his shirt after each victory to the delight of many in the crowd. But Nadal has probably never been depicted the way he has in “The Rafa Play,” written by Peter Gil-Sheridan and directed by Morgan Gould, which has its final two performances on Friday and Saturday at the Flea Theater in TriBeCa. Gil-Sheridan, using a main character based on himself, imagines getting a job at the ATP offices in Florida and entering into a searing romance with Nadal, which he brags about to his awe-struck friends. “The fantasy was never that I was actually in Majorca with Nadal, but that I was coming back to New York and telling everyone about what my life was like now,” Gil-Sheridan said in an interview. “It was ultimately this giant escape fantasy. I was coming back and talking about my success.” The real Nadal is not gay, and his longtime girlfriend, Xisca Perelló, is a frequent courtside fixture at his matches. But in Gil-Sheridan’s fantastical, farcical script, Nadal, as played by Juan Arturo, is an exaggerated embodiment of the 16-time Grand Slam champion who finished this year atop the men’s rankings. To keep the play grounded in unreality, Rafa is surrounded by surreal side characters, including a scorned one-eyed cat. “It’s not what would be akin to a biopic; Rafa functions as symbol in the play,” Gil-Sheridan said. “I think, in that way, so many of these top tennis players function as symbol to us. Like Serena Williams: She is such a huge symbol in our culture. But who is Serena the woman versus Serena the symbol? I think it’s similar for Rafa. And for me, as a gay man, him as a masculine ideal is what I’m looking at. So it’s kind of him, and kind of not him. It’s a funny thing. He’s not being portrayed as a gay man; he’s being portrayed as a gay icon.” Arturo, a Nadal fan since watching him on TV in Spain during his gold medal run at the 2008 Beijing Olympics, said he had to work to make sure his portrayal of the well-known tennis player was something audiences could “reconcile with the actual human being.” He said he watched video of Nadal’s matches — incorporating, for example, his signature ear- and nose-touching tics in his preserve routine — and “hit the gym, hard.” “There’s a moment in the play where the trainer comes up and starts examining my muscles onstage, with the line ‘exquisite abdominals,’ and I thought: Oh, man, I need to get to work,” Arturo said. “But that work kind of helped me get in the mind-set of it, because people who go to the gym a lot have a different way of holding themselves and acting around people. It helped me find my way into the character a lot.” Arturo bears scant resemblance to Nadal, but his exaggerated physicality — gunshots are heard when he flexes his biceps — quickly dominates the 46-seat theater when he enters at the end of the first act. Rafa’s accent is exaggerated as well, adding a heavy Spanish lisp to endearments like “You are like my Australian Open title: singular.” The ludicrously lascivious climax of the first act in Peter and Rafa’s relationship gives way to a reckoning in the second act, set in Nadal’s home in Majorca, where the pair’s incompatibility becomes starkly clear and Peter (Olli Haaskivi) clashes with Nadal’s mother (Annie Henk). “If you actually played this fantasy out, what would it actually be? And of course it would never work,” Gil-Sheridan said. “I’m a nebbish playwright — and he’s not even gay! That’s what the play starts to come down to: that the Rafael Nadal that I’ve created in the first act is a huge figment of my imagination.” As the demands and high standards of an elite athlete come into focus, the relationship crumbles. Many of the stresses Gil-Sheridan has imagined in Nadal’s touring life ring true — like weariness about traveling to Asia for tournaments there. Gil-Sheridan said Nadal’s generally good behavior makes him less knowable than other players. “He doesn’t present in as complicated a way as Andy Roddick or Roger Federer or Novak Djokovic,” Gil-Sheridan said. “Those guys, they kind of show their hand a little bit more; you see their negative stuff happening. I feel like Rafa doesn’t do that as much. He’s more diplomatic in the way he talks about things. He’s the hardest character to write in the second act.” He did not contact Nadal or his representatives for permission to use him as a character in the play; satire and parody, particularly of public figures, have long been protected from libel and defamation lawsuits. Gil-Sheridan’s vigilant fandom pays off in several details. Nadal’s real-life love of “The Phantom of the Opera” is mentioned, and when his character is wearily discussing the wear and tear of life on tour, he mentions “the cramps in my calves that make me collapse beneath tables,” a reference to an incident during a news conference at the 2011 United States Open. Some details are more incongruous. At one point, Rafa wears an Adidas-made Manchester United jersey — an unlikely choice for the real Nadal, a Nike-sponsored supporter of Real Madrid. But tennis fans will appreciate when Rafa gleefully fist-pumps at the news that his favorite potatoes are going to be served. Gil-Sheridan said one of the things he found most enviable about tennis was its indisputable scoreboards. “Artists don’t have that clarity,” he said. “You’re always walking around asking, ‘Am I doing O.K., or am I messing up my life?’ In tennis, you get some real direct feedback: The match ends and you know the result; you know your ranking.” Several plays with tennis themes have been staged in recent years, which Gil-Sheridan believes speaks to the sport’s power as “metaphor for the game of life.” “There are these crushing defeats that can happen at any time, no matter how good you are,” he said. “And then there are victories that can happen no matter how much you’re struggling; you can come through and suddenly find yourself winning. I think that’s always been really meaningful to me. As a tennis fan, I so relate to the underdogs and so root for them, and am so excited when they prevail — even over Rafa, sometimes.”