 BELFAST, Northern Ireland — A controversial penalty awarded because of a hand ball was enough to give Switzerland a 1-0 victory over Northern Ireland in the first leg of their World Cup playoff on Thursday. A volley by Xherdan Shaqiri struck Corey Evans’s shoulder as Evans attempted to block the shot. The Romanian referee Ovidiu Hategan pointed to the penalty spot, drawing angry protests from the Northern Ireland players. Ricardo Rodriguez converted the penalty kick in the 58th minute, putting the Swiss in the drivers’ seat to qualify for their fourth World Cup in a row. “It’s strange because I had a feeling the referee knew that he had made a wrong decision,” Evans said, “and I’m sure he was getting fed information throughout the game and he could tell with everybody else’s reaction that maybe he had made the wrong call.” Northern Ireland Manager Michael O’Neill bemoaned the lack of video assistant referee technology in the World Cup playoff series. “It’s just staggering in this day and age when the stakes are so high at this level of the game that something like that is a game-changer,” O’Neill said. “I spent three hours in a conference the other week at FIFA on video assistant refereeing, and certainly when you see what happened tonight you would certainly be an advocate of it.” Boos rang out at the final whistle as home fans directed their ire at the match official. The second leg will be played in Basel, Switzerland, on Sunday. CROATIA 4, GREECE 1 Croatia took a decisive step toward World Cup qualification, overwhelming Greece in the first leg of their playoff. Captain Luka Modric shook off concerns of poor form by opening the scoring from the penalty spot in the 13th minute. The Italian referee Gianluca Rocchi awarded the penalty after goalkeeper Orestis Karnezis of Greece failed to control the ball and fouled Nikola Kalinic with a poorly judged clearance. Kalinic added another goal six minutes later, flicking in a cross from Ivan Strinic with the side of his foot. Greece struggled to regain composure and rarely attacked, but Sokratis Papastathopoulos briefly silenced the home crowd, sending a header over Croatia goalkeeper Danijel Subasic and into the net. But relief for the visitors was short-lived. Ivan Perisic headed in a cross from Sime Vrsaljko in the 33rd minute as Croatia dominated both wings. The fourth goal came four minutes after the break from Andrej Kramaric, swooping in after an error by Kostas Stafylidis. Greece hosts the second leg of the playoff on Sunday.