 PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — The International Olympic Committee expelled the I.O.C. member who has been most critical of its handling of the Russia doping scandal from the 2018 Winter Games after an altercation with a security guard. The I.O.C. condemned the member, Adam Pengilly, and said that it took the action to ensure that it did not run afoul of the host nation. After learning of the incident, the leader of the I.O.C.’s ethics panel, Pâquerette Girard-Zappelli, summoned Pengilly to a hearing, then the organization demanded that he apologize and leave the Games. Pengilly, a former skeleton racer from Britain, left South Korea on Friday, 24 hours after the incident, which took place close to InterContinental hotel. However, Pengilly’s departure did not end the controversy, as details of what actually took happened remained murky, with Pengilly denying claims made in local news media reports that he assaulted or racially abused the guard. Also, the I.O.C. was forced to explain Friday why it acted so quickly and so forcefully against Pengilly but has let investigations into accusations of wrongdoing by other members languish without penalty. Mark Adams, the I.O.C.’s chief spokesman, said the situation had to be dealt with immediately because it occurred during the Games and the organization was right to act because Pengilly had confessed to his role in the incident. “We are presuming that, because he admitted he’d done it, there isn’t a presumption of innocence any more,” Adams said. Adams said another reason for the I.O.C.’s stern punishment was because the victim of Pengilly’s outburst was a volunteer. Local organizers later denied that was the case, saying the man was paid security guard. Pengilly wrote a letter of apology to the guard, stating, “I am sorry for rushing past you when you asked me to stop. I did not know that you fell over trying to chase me and I hope that you are fine. I am also sorry for swearing and I hope that you did not misunderstand what I was saying.” The incident took place just after 9:30 a.m. at a transport hub, where I.O.C. officials take chauffeured cars to venues at the Games. It was witnessed by a member of the broadcast news media, who corroborated Pengilly’s version of events to the local police, according to a security manager in Pyeongchang. He added that police also had reviewed video footage, which appeared to show Pengilly make contact with the security guard. The guard sent pictures of minor scratches he said he had sustained to investigators. No charges have been filed against Pengilly. The speed with which the I.O.C. dispensed with Pengilly stands in contrast with the way the organization has dealt with other members whose behavior has drawn scrutiny. Alex Gilady, one of the I.O.C.’s longest serving members, faces accusations of sexual harassment and assault in Israel. Last year, he announced his temporary resignation from the media company he runs to concentrate on clearing his name. He decided to remain on the I.O.C., however, where he is monitoring the buildup to the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo. Kuwait’s Sheikh Ahmad al-Fahad al-Sabah, a major power broker in Asian sports, remains the head of the body that delivers about $130 million a year in annual grants. He quit all his roles in soccer last year after an official from Guam pleaded guilty to accepting millions of dollars in bribes linked to Sheikh Ahmad. He has not been punished by the I.O.C. Adams explained that Ahmad, Gilady and Patrick Hickey — a member from Ireland arrested at the Rio de Janeiro Games in 2016 for ticket scalping — all continue to deny the claims against them. Hickey has been serving a self-imposed suspension for nearly two years. The I.O.C. has not ruled on any of those cases. Pengilly, 40, is also the vice president of international federation for bobsled and skeleton. His eight-year term with the I.O.C. is scheduled to end on Feb. 25. His departure from these Games means both members who abstained from a confidence vote over the I.O.C.’s handling of the Russia affair will be absent from the closing ceremony, when Russia’s banned Olympic committee could be welcomed back. The other member, Canada’s Richard Pound, said he plans to skip the parade because he fears the I.O.C. will decide to restore Russia’s team, its uniform and its flag. The Korean authorities demanded apologies from both Pengilly and the I.O.C. after his altercation. The case also highlighted how cultural sensitives have occasionally been strained here. Days before the Games began, organizers dismissed a Russian volunteer after a complaint from a Korean counterpart that he had “hugged” her without permission. The police have confiscated the Russian man’s passport while investigations continue, a spokeswoman said. Some national Olympic Committees have warned their staff members attending the Games about behavior that is deemed inappropriate in Korea, including European-style greetings that involve kissing on the cheek.