 Walk into Madison Square Garden for a Knicks game these dour days and you can feel the aftershocks from last year’s organizational quake while living on the Phil Jackson fault line. Jeff Hornacek, the fourth of four coaches under Jackson’s team presidency (counting the inherited Mike Woodson and the interim Kurt Rambis), addresses reporters with that classic lame duck look, the uneasy smile of a man about to have a dentist’s drill plunged into his mouth. Frank Ntilikina, the 19-year-old French point guard and final transaction of Jackson’s three-plus-season tenure, stoically continues his apprenticeship amid mounting evidence that the revamped front office has rationalized that he can one day be written off as a final Jackson blunder. And if the building wasn’t haunted enough, gasps from the sight of Kristaps Porzingis recently collapsed in pain with a torn anterior cruciate ligament linger like whispers in a graveyard of broken seasons past, along with Jackson’s forewarnings to himself on drafting the 7-foot-3 Latvian in the first place. Porzingis, Jackson told his pal Charley Rosen in one of his 2015 diary confessionals, “might almost be too tall for the game.” He added, “What I mean is that his core strength might never be good enough, and that he might not be able to get low enough to get himself into prime defensive position to body power rebounders or drivers.” No one wishes to ever inscribe that on the likable Porzingis’s career tombstone. It’s just that with the Knicks’ luck, and the early medical data, the cautionary caption bubble floating above the franchise player’s head is not so easily burst. Sans Porzingis, who had surgery on Tuesday and is projected to be out for up to a year, the Knicks surrendered a 27-point lead Wednesday night and lost to the Washington Wizards, 118-113, at a sold-out Garden, their eighth consecutive loss in a continuation of the astonishingly familiar cohabitation of losing basketball and devout fan loyalty. Logically, the remainder of the season should be a study in development of the team’s young players. Illogically, among those to whom the majority of Wednesday night’s minutes went were the 29-year-old journeyman gunner Michael Beasley; the 32-year-old shooting guard Courtney Lee; and the 34-year-old point guard Jarrett Jack. Those three took a combined 41 shots and made 13. Ntilikina, the No. 8 pick of last June’s draft, played a shade under 11 minutes, roughly half the amount granted to Emmanuel Mudiay, who at 21, after falling into disfavor in Denver, was acquired at the trade deadline last week and immediately promoted ahead of Ntilikina as the apparent point guard heir even before he knew the plays. Hornacek attributed Ntilikina’s limited use to his being burned defensively. He at least acknowledged that Ntilikina, as if he didn’t have enough to deal with as a slender teenage rookie, had been forced to play bigger, stronger players off the ball, including the Wizards’ 6-8 Otto Porter Jr. on several third-quarter possessions on Wednesday. After the All-Star break, Hornacek said, adjustments in the rotation will be made so that Mudiay and Ntilikina play more and Ntilikina “gets a taste of that point guard position.” How generous. Without having played in the summer league and missing much of training camp with minor injuries, Ntilikina was competent enough to play significant minutes in several games when the Knicks were over .500 earlier this season and targeting the playoffs. Now he has been downgraded to “a taste” of the position he supposedly was being groomed to fill. Just last month, San Antonio’s iconic coach, Gregg Popovich, was raving about the 6-5 Ntilikina’s seven-foot wingspan, defensive instincts and cool demeanor. Now Ntilikina has essentially been told that the Knicks no longer have the courage of Jackson’s convictions and that they prefer the ball in the hands of Mudiay, a more athletic player with a propensity for dribbling around until something happens, good or bad. “He’s in a precarious position with Mudiay there now, you know what I mean?” Walt Frazier, the Knicks’ broadcaster and lead guard on their only two championship teams, said when asked about Ntilikina. Frazier, a defensive genius in his day, has watched Ntilikina closely, and he concurs with Popovich’s opinion that his wingspan and willingness to apply pressure at the point of attack are potentially crucial commodities to a franchise sorely lacking in defensive identity since the Riley-Van Gundy years. “Defense is his forte and he’s only 19 — that’s the upside,” Frazier said. “But I tell people that he’s always looking to pass the ball. His biggest problem is that he’s too unselfish.” Another way to take the measure of Ntilikina would be to admire the willingness of a teenager to defer, to keep the ball and the bodies in motion. Ego and offensive temerity over time can be built. The court vision that Ntilikina has occasionally flashed — if you rated the top 10 passes thrown by Knicks this season, he might be credited with more than half — is largely innate. No one can say at this point what Ntilikina, or Mudiay, will become. But the fact that Ntilikina already must wonder about his position and even his future in New York speaks to a more vexing issue, the pattern of one failed Knicks regime influencing the next one. The common denominator, of course, being James Dolan, the owner, who seldom, if ever, has made the right call at the right time. After months of organizational dysfunction, Jackson needed to go. But consider that his dismissal, soon after last June’s draft, was the equivalent of allowing a doomed man at the edge of a plank to dictate the direction of the ship. Hope being the sustenance of devotion, Knicks fans will have or find reasons to believe in an ultimate course to contention. As for this and possibly next season, too, in the immortal words of Micheal Ray Richardson, the ship be sinkin’.