 Follow our live coverage of N.F.L. Week 9 here. Quarterback Dak Prescott won’t have to go it alone for Dallas. The Eagles are trying for a seventh straight win. The Panthers have traded their top wide receiver. The Seahawks are out to prove their secondary is still elite. These are just some of the story lines entering Week 9 of the N.F.L. season, which is sure to have a few upsets. Here are our picks against the spread. Last week’s record against the spread: 7-5-1 Overall record: 57-60-2 Chiefs at Cowboys, 4:25 p.m., CBS Line: Cowboys by 2 (Preview updated to reflect news) It appeared that Ezekiel Elliott’s six-game suspension would finally keep him out of a game, but a federal appeals court granted him a short administrative stay that will keep him active on Sunday. The change in Elliott’s status is welcome news for the Cowboys (4-3), who have won two consecutive games after a rough stretch in which they had lost two of three. As good as Dak Prescott is, and as convinced as the Cowboys are that they will be fine even if the suspension eventually kicks in, the recent improvement has been powered directly by Elliott, a star second-year running back finding his rookie-season form. In the two wins, he rushed for a combined 297 yards and four touchdowns, while adding another touchdown on a 72-yard reception. Being over .500 is good, and having Elliott around for at least one more week is better, but there is still cause for concern in Dallas. The Cowboys have just a 39 percent chance of making the playoffs, according to The Upshot’s Playoff Simulator. Catching the red-hot Eagles for a division title in the N.F.C. East seems unlikely, and if Dallas wants to beat out a crowded field of potential wild-card teams, it has little margin for error. Until Elliott actually misses a game, the Cowboys’ main concerns are on defense. But the Chiefs (6-2) having cooled off considerably in recent weeks. Their offense has been relying on a kicker for a large portion of its scoring, and that makes the Chiefs unlikely to keep up with Prescott, regardless of who is at running back, and especially so with Elliott suiting up. Pick: Cowboys Broncos at Eagles, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Eagles by 8.5 The reality of life in the N.F.L. is that all streaks end. The Eagles (7-1) have won six consecutive games and scored 20 or more points in 12 straight. They have started to be referred to as the N.F.C.’s best team, and they have a fearsome defense and a talented young quarterback to back up that talk. While they may keep up their winning and scoring streaks for another week, a desperate opponent cannot be overlooked. The Broncos (3-4) certainly qualify as a team that can play better than it has in recent weeks, which might make the matchup competitive. Pick: Broncos Falcons at Panthers, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Panthers by 1 If the Panthers (5-3) had no plans to re-sign him in the off-season, then trading Kelvin Benjamin was probably a good move. But it leaves the team awfully thin at wide receiver. Passes underneath to Christian McCaffrey, the team’s rookie running back, are supposed to be a safety valve when bigger plays fail to develop; they are not supposed to be the offensive strategy. If the Falcons (4-3) got out of their rut with a win over the Jets last week, then Carolina could be in trouble at home. Pick: Falcons Redskins at Seahawks, 4:05 p.m., Fox Line: Seahawks by 7.5 It is hard to say if Deshaun Watson and the Texans gave the N.F.L. a blueprint for attacking the secondary of the Seahawks (5-2), or if Watson is just that good, but the rookie threw aggressively against them and would have won if not for a herculean effort by Russell Wilson and the Seattle offense. Kirk Cousins may not be as gifted as Watson, but he does not lack for confidence, and it would not be surprising for the Redskins (3-4) to go into attack mode to see if the Legion of Boom has truly developed some cracks. Pick: Redskins Colts at Texans, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Texans by 7 (Preview updated to reflect injury news) It was a huge loss for the Texans (3-4) in Week 5 when J. J. Watt was declared out for the season, but that was nothing compared with the blow the team took on Thursday when Deshaun Watson, Houston’s star rookie quarterback, tore his anterior cruciate ligament during practice and was lost for the season. Watson had been sensational in recent weeks, transforming a team that had relied entirely on its defense into the highest scoring offense in the N.F.L. To reach the heights Watson reached, and to now tumble back to the reality of Tom Savage being the Texans’ starting quarterback, is a blow to morale that is almost unfathomable. Houston, which was favored by 13 points before the injury, is still favored by 7, which is a fairly stunning indictment of the Colts (2-6). But oddsmakers are drastically shortchanging how much of the Texans’ turnaround was owed directly to Watson’s talent. Pick: Colts Rams at Giants, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Rams by 3.5 The Rams (5-2) emphasized this week that the team should not be complacent against the injury-riddled Giants (1-6). Both teams are coming off bye weeks, though the Rams are doing so with the optimism of consecutive wins in which they scored a combined 60 points. The Giants limped through the break and then suspended their top cornerback, Janoris Jenkins, for this game for a violation of team rules. Keeping pace with the Seahawks at the top of the N.F.C. West should provide Los Angeles with the motivation they need to stay focused. Pick: Rams Bengals at Jaguars, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Jaguars by 4.5 The Jaguars (4-3) have yet to win consecutive games this season, but their defense may have fixed its weak link. The unit has been sensational at every aspect of the game besides run defense, and the team has tried to fix that by trading for Marcell Dareus, a run-stuffing defensive tackle who is familiar with Coach Doug Marrone’s way of handling things. If Dareus can lift the front seven’s efforts against the run from awful to mediocre, the Jaguars, who rush the passer and defend the pass incredibly well, could finally find some consistency. That is terrible news for the Bengals (3-4). Pick: Jaguars Buccaneers at Saints, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Saints by 7 The Saints (5-2) are riding a five-game winning streak, and always play better at home, but the Buccaneers (2-5) are a tougher team than their record indicates. The Saints are right to be optimistic about their playoff chances (The Upshot gives them a 79 percent chance of making the playoffs and a 59 percent chance of winning their division), but a lot of breaks have gone their way to keep their winning streak alive, and sloppy play is bound to come back to haunt them eventually. Asking them to win is reasonable, but demanding they win by 7 may be unrealistic. Pick: Buccaneers Bills at Jets, 8:25 p.m. (Thursday), NFL Network and CBS in New York Line: Bills by 3 Buffalo fans love to point out that they root for the only N.F.L. team in New York, but even if you include the Jets and the Giants, they clearly have New York’s most talented team. Against the Jets (3-5), the Bills (5-2) will stick to the script of running the ball, passing enough to keep the defense honest and playing hard-nosed defense. It is a formula that just might end their long playoff drought. Pick: Bills Ravens at Titans, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Titans by 4 The Ravens (4-4) did not take kindly to their quarterback, Joe Flacco, being brutalized on an illegal hit last week, and they responded with the entire team emulating Jefferson from “Fast Times at Ridgemont High,” piling on in a 40-0 blowout against Miami. Going on the road against the Titans (4-3), who got healthy during a well-timed bye week, is a much tougher task than slowing down the Dolphins. Pick: Titans Cardinals at 49ers, 4:05 p.m., Fox Line: Cardinals by 2 The 49ers (0-8) are off to the worst start in franchise history, but they are not without hope, as the team’s general manager, John Lynch, has shown a knack for savvy moves. His latest was to get Jimmy Garoppolo from the Patriots for a second-round pick. Garoppolo, a 26-year-old career backup, may not make anyone forget Joe Montana or Steve Young, but under Coach Kyle Shanahan he could turn into a franchise quarterback. Unfortunately, C.J. Beathard is expected to start this week against the Cardinals (3-4). Pick: Cardinals Raiders at Dolphins, 8:30 p.m., NBC Line: Raiders by 3 “I’m tired of this offense being awful,” Miami’s Coach Adam Gase told reporters this week. “We’re the worst offense in football. It’s hard to get lower than that.” It is not clear how the Dolphins (4-3) got better by trading away Jay Ajayi, a 24-year-old running back who has 1,662 rushing yards in 19 career starts, and that’s one of the many reasons Miami is an underdog at home against the struggling Raiders (3-5). It would be hard to make a case for a less appealing Sunday night game. Pick: Raiders Lions at Packers, 8:30 p.m., ESPN Line: Lions by 2.5 The Lions (3-4) have lost three consecutive games, but they will feel a lot better about their season if they get a road win against a division rival. The Packers (4-3) are coming off a bye week in which they tried to fix an offense that has been horrendous since Aaron Rodgers was injured, but this is a particularly difficult matchup: Green Bay’s offense has been reduced to a running game powered by Aaron Jones and Brett Hundley, and the Lions do their best work stopping the run. Pick: Lions.