 PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — Weather delays have plagued Alpine races at the Winter Olympics for more than 50 years. It is a natural consequence of the typical Winter Games setting, where altitude and a seasonable climate can lead to excessive snow and high winds. Either one can make a ski course unsafe. Although the Alpine courses at the Pyeongchang Olympics are not at an especially high elevation for an Olympics (less than 4,000 feet), strong, gusty winds of 40 to 60 miles per hour this week have whipped through the valleys and mountain passes. The conditions caused the postponement of the men’s downhill here on Sunday. On Monday, the women’s giant slalom was called off as well, despite bright sun. The swirling winds were so harsh it was hard to keep the cloth panels used to mark the gates affixed to the gate poles. Expecting the racers, even the best in the world, to negotiate down the course was asking too much. The Olympic Alpine calendar included days built into the schedule in case of weather delays when it was formed months ago. But with the weather not expected to improve until Wednesday, Olympic officials on Monday did something uncharacteristic: In essence, they threw up their hands and gave in to the weather. Officials had been hoping to avoid running two Alpine races on the same day since it diminishes the profile of each event. Over the years, they have been especially protective of the men’s downhill, the most daredevil Alpine event and a signature race of any Winter Olympics. But Monday, with no Alpine events having been contested four days into the Pyeongchang Olympics, officials knew they had to start holding some races and handing out some medals as soon as possible. As a result, the women’s giant slalom was rescheduled for Thursday, the same day that the postponed men’s downhill will be held. Such a scenario has happened before, but it is a signal that Olympic officials, and perhaps American television executives, were increasingly vexed that the windblown Pyeongchang Games were listing through the first week of competition without one of the featured sports. If two events would have to be held on one day — at two separate Alpine sites, which means twice as much manpower needed — so be it. There are other unintentional but weighty consequences to the revised schedule, one of which appears to significantly favor the American skier Mikaela Shiffrin. The new Alpine calendar has the men’s Alpine combined scheduled for Tuesday, although high winds may lead to that event’s postponement as well. But on Wednesday, when the weather is expected to be fair with light winds, the women’s slalom will be raced. That means Shiffrin’s first race at the Pyeongchang Olympics will be her best event. Shiffrin, the defending Olympic slalom champion and a three-time slalom world champion, will be a prohibitive favorite in Wednesday’s race, which could be a considerable confidence boost for her in her quest for multiple Olympic gold medals at Pyeongchang. Shiffrin is expected to race in at least four events, and perhaps five, including Thursday’s giant slalom. The two runs of that race will be contested before and after the men’s downhill, which may make for interesting viewing back in the United States on Wednesday night, but it is less than ideal for Olympic officials who have spent several frustrating days wrapped tight in their parkas to protect against the subzero wind chill temperatures. But at least the Alpine competition at the 2018 Winter Olympics will have finally started.