 WHIPPANY, N.J. — Strikers, by nature, are not a humble bunch. The hardest task in soccer — putting the ball into the net — lends itself to a certain type of self-confident, self-congratulatory personality. Bradley Wright-Phillips of the Red Bulls, then, is not a typical striker. After one game this season, Wright-Phillips was so distraught by his “dreadful” effort that he described it as “my worst performance for years.” Never mind that he had scored twice and his team had won. Wright-Phillips remembers even his best moments, it seems, not for what he did but for what he could have done better. When Wright-Phillips tied Major League Soccer’s season scoring record in 2014, for example, Red Bulls fans honored his 27 goals by raising a banner proclaiming him the “Ultimate Scoring Machine.” It was a special moment in a special season. Wright-Phillips was being recognized for his first league scoring title — he would go on to add a second in 2016 — but also for his emergence as a premium player in a league with plenty of bigger names. Yet three years later, when Wright-Phillips is asked about that night, he does not lament that with one more goal he could have had the record, and the glory, all to himself. Instead, he expresses a different kind of regret. “I was embarrassed, to be honest,” he said Friday. “I mean, it was amazing and I wanted to go over and say, ‘Thank you,’ but I thought it would be too arrogant. I still don’t think I said thank you properly.” “I don’t really like too much credit,” he added. “I know nobody’s going to believe this, but I’d rather be able to score goals and nobody saw or even spoke about it. That would be just about the perfect world for me.” Wright-Phillips’s perfect world will have to wait. His team’s fortunes are closely linked to his form, and scrutiny comes with the territory. And another tribute is surely coming: Wright-Phillips has 99 goals across all competitions since joining the Red Bulls in 2013, meaning his next milestone could come as soon as Monday night, when he will lead the Red Bulls against Toronto F.C. in the first leg of their Eastern Conference semifinal playoff series. Whether he likes it or not, Wright-Phillips continues to ensure he will be seen and talked about. It was probably helpful that the reticent Wright-Phillips, after several years playing in England, began his M.L.S. career in a supporting role alongside the World Cup winner Thierry Henry. Back then, Henry did the creating for the Red Bulls, and Wright-Phillips just focused on the finishing. “When Thierry got on the ball, that’s when we’d come alive,” Wright-Phillips said. “He’d say, ‘Run, and I’ll find you.’ Music to my ears.” But when Henry retired after Wright-Phillips’s big 2014 season, the Red Bulls’ new coach, Jesse Marsch, made Wright-Phillips one of his first phone calls, and told him he expected the quiet journeyman to turn himself into a leader. “When Jesse told me that on the phone,” Wright-Phillips said, “I said: ‘I know we don’t know each other that well, but when you get to know me, you’ll find out I’m more of a follower. You give me instructions, and I’ll go and do it.’ And he said: ‘No. People look to you to do something on the pitch and respect you, and you’re going to be a leader.’ “And I was like: ‘This guy’s not letting up. I’m going to have to start thinking of things to say.’” For Marsch, who was inheriting not just a team but an entire organization that had been in thrall to the outsize presence of Henry, Wright-Phillips was a critical figure among a group of veteran players he needed to fill a “massive leadership void.” “When I got here, I kind of knew that Brad was going to be the biggest player we had,” Marsch said. “It’s almost like, when you have a quarterback in football, he has to be the captain. He doesn’t have a choice. He calls the plays. He has the ball in his hands. He has to make the decisions. So he has to be a leader.” Wright-Phillips bought in, reluctantly becoming a more vocal presence, but his teammates say he is still sparing with his words. “When he talks, everybody listens,” midfielder Sacha Kljestan said. “Because when he says something, it really means a lot.” Wright-Phillips, 32, says he is grateful just to have a coach who has clear expectations for him after he spent years adrift in England’s lower divisions, playing for coaches too distracted by promotion or relegation struggles to worry about developing their players. During that period, Wright-Phillips saw his once-promising career — he played in Manchester City’s academy and broke in to the first team under Manager Kevin Keegan (“He was the first person who made me believe I was special as a finisher,” Wright-Phillips said) — derailed amid a series of false starts at progressively smaller English clubs: Southampton, Plymouth Argyle, Charlton Athletic and Brentford. Wright-Phillips said he had never doubted his calling, but as he found himself becoming an interchangeable cog in forgettable teams scrapping for points, doubts crept in. It wasn’t until he joined the Red Bulls in 2013, he said, that he truly grasped what his personal development had been missing in England. “A lot of young players don’t get coached there,” he said, “because the team just wants to get out of the league: ‘Get it in their half! Flick it on!’” Under Marsch, he said, “I know how to have a good game.” If that is true, Wright-Phillips’s success over the past four years is testimony to the power of arm-around-the-shoulder coaching. Now established at the core of the Red Bulls, he was asked last week for his honest assessment of the player that Toronto, the league’s best team in the regular season, will face in the playoffs. Wright-Phillips paused, then rattled off a muted version of the same description that his teammates and his coach have used to praise him: “decent linkup play,” “good movement,” “dangerous in the box,” “fairly quick.” Then he quickly added, “I hope that doesn’t come across as arrogant.”