 MANCHESTER, N.H. — Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, invigorated after his performance in Saturday night’s debate, declared the Republican race to be “wide open” on Monday as he hopes for a better-than-expected finish in the New Hampshire primary on Tuesday. “No one knows what’s really going on in this race at all,” the governor said on ABC’s “Good Morning America.” Mr. Christie’s thorough shredding of Senator Marco Rubio of Florida in the debate seemed to leave him deeply satisfied. He continued to criticize Mr. Rubio on Monday, saying that the senator had “never accomplished anything of any note in the United States Senate.” And on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” Mr. Christie said of Mr. Rubio: “He gets told what to say and he repeats it. I mean, that’s what he does.” Mr. Christie needs a strong showing in New Hampshire to be able to continue his candidacy for much longer, and last week, he argued that the race in New Hampshire essentially boiled down to a choice between him and Mr. Rubio, whom he portrayed as having insufficient experience to lead the country. Even with Mr. Christie’s performance in the debate, he faces significant challenges. He has fared worse in recent New Hampshire polls compared with his main rivals, and at the end of December, his campaign had barely $1 million left. Still, on Sunday Mr. Christie took something of a victory lap while receiving congratulations for his debate performance. “When the lights go on, I told you he wouldn’t be ready,” he said of Mr. Rubio at a town-hall-style meeting at a school in Hampton, N.H. “Well, the lights were bright last night and all of America saw who’s ready and who’s not. I am. He’s not.” At one point, a woman in the audience exclaimed, “You were on fire last night!” Mr. Christie responded, “And I don’t intend to cool off until I beat Hillary Clinton.” Visiting a pub in Exeter, N.H., later in the day, Mr. Christie was asked how he was feeling about his debate performance. “About as good as you can feel,” he said. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Christie said that the chattering class and political operatives had been pushing to anoint Mr. Rubio, adding: “That anointment is now over.” “You remember what Mike Tyson said, that great political philosopher, right?” Mr. Christie added. “Everybody’s got a plan until you get punched in the face.”