 Voters will soon get 15 unfiltered minutes of the Jeb Bush story. Right to Rise, the “super PAC” supporting Mr. Bush, has produced a 15-minute documentary featuring him and will release it online on Saturday and will later show it on television. Mike Murphy, the super PAC’s executive director, briefed Bush donors on the video at a breakfast meeting in Washington on Thursday morning before the Republican Jewish Coalition’s annual gathering, at which Mr. Bush spoke. Right to Rise confirmed the group’s plans. The documentary, which includes interviews with Mr. Bush and his wife, Columba, will talk about Mr. Bush’s record as the governor of Florida, as well as describe his vision for the future, including his plans to defeat the Islamic State and overhaul the federal government. The plan is to air the spot in 30-minute blocks on the New England Sports Network, which would reach voters in New Hampshire — a crucial state for Mr. Bush, who has seen his poll numbers stagnate in the single digits. Voters in additional early primary states would also be targeted with the video digitally. The documentary is the brainchild of Mr. Murphy, who produced a similar, 30-minute town hall-style infomercial for Meg Whitman’s unsuccessful bid for governor in California in 2010. Despite a large financial advantage — Right to Rise has raised over $100 million — Mr. Bush has struggled to connect with voters and capture their attention in a crowded Republican field that includes many boisterous, charismatic candidates. The documentary seems to be part of an effort to remedy that enthusiasm gap. “This is another way for us to tell Jeb’s story and provide more context and background about his positive vision for the country beyond what voters see in a 30-second TV spot,” said Paul Lindsay, a spokesman for Right to Rise. In 2012, Mitt Romney, the Republican nominee, also struggled to connect with voters, and many in his orbit — including Mr. Murphy — believed his campaign should have released a behind-the-scenes documentary, “Mitt,” that showed a softer, more caring side of the candidate. (The film instead made its debut at the Sundance Film Festival in 2014.) Right to Rise would not disclose how much money it is putting behind the documentary, or how much it cost to produce, but such undertakings are typically quite expensive. In 2008, Senator Barack Obama’s presidential campaign, flush with cash, aired a 30-minute infomercial on prime-time network television less than a week before Election Day.