 From the looks of the polls, they had little to lose, but Mike Huckabee and Rick Santorum might have lost something by choosing to attend a Trump campaign rally: respect.  The winners of the last two Iowa Republican caucuses, Mr. Santorum and Mr. Huckabee have failed to catch on in the 2016 race. But some conservatives said Friday that they had sold out their campaigns and their supporters by embracing Mr. Trump, the Republican front-runner in the polls, while still running for president.  Erick Erickson, the conservative blogger, said the moment marked the unofficial conclusion of their campaigns.  “Like conquered kings paraded in a Triumph through the streets of Rome, Santorum and Huckabee were paraded through Drake University, now the vassals of Donald Trump,” Mr. Erickson said. “What a pathetic end to the last two men to win Iowa.” Mr. Huckabee and Mr. Santorum also drew disdain on the conservative website Red State, where some mused that they were baldly vying to be Mr. Trump’s vice-presidential pick.  “Santorum and Huckabee are, as far as I can tell, good, Christian people in their private lives, but the lure of power and politics has distorted them so much that they are reduced to begging a narcissistic billionaire who doesn’t think he’s sinned and cannot name his favorite book of the Bible for a spot as vice president,” wrote Jake Walker, a Red State commentator. “It’s a disgrace to watch.” The mockery spilled onto social media, where some on Twitter suggested that Mr. Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator, and Mr. Huckabee, a former Arkansas governor, were looking for scraps of exposure before they bow out of the race after the Iowa caucuses.  — Nick Constantino (@NickCons) January 29, 2016  Theie joint appearance could benefit Mr. Trump, however, by lending him some additional credibility with social conservative and evangelical Christians. Supporters of Mr. Santorum and Mr. Huckabee could also decide to abandon them and back Mr. Trump in the caucuses on Monday, potentially tipping the state in his direction. Mr. Huckabee defended his decision to attend the event on Thursday, arguing that it was about supporting veterans rather than embracing Mr. Trump.  “I’m still running for president,” Mr. Huckabee told CNN.  Two days after the caucuses, Mr. Trump is scheduled to hold a rally in Arkansas. If Mr. Huckabee fails to produce a strong showing in Iowa, his home state could be a fitting place for a formal endorsement.  