 COLUMBUS, Ohio — Hillary Clinton disparaged the economic record and policy acumen of Donald J. Trump in a speech on Tuesday, suggesting his ideas were ill-considered and scrutinizing his own checkered business history.  Some of the highlights: • Mrs. Clinton said the American economy “isn’t yet where we want it to be, but we are stronger and better positioned than anyone in the world.” She trumpeted her fiscal record as a senator from New York. • She said that, like Mr. Trump’s foreign policy ideas, his economic proposals were dangerous. “Just like he shouldn’t have his finger on the button, he shouldn’t have his hands on our economy,” Mrs. Clinton said. • Mrs. Clinton cited a series of Mr. Trump’s past controversial comments about issues like the minimum wage. She said Mr. Trump had also “said all kinds of things about women in the workforce. He once called pregnant employees — and I quote — ‘an inconvenience.’” • Mrs. Clinton, who has often been criticized for her ties to Wall Street, suggested Mr. Trump would “take us back to where we were before the crisis” and “rig the economy for Wall Street again.” She also assailed Mr. Trump’s comments appraising himself as the “king of debt.” • Predicting that Mr. Trump would cause a recession, Mrs. Clinton noted that the global economy “hangs on every word our president says.” She said Mr. Trump’s suggesting that the United States might default on its debt could start “a global panic” if he were president. • Mrs. Clinton described the process of constructing her speech: “I had my researchers and my speech writers send me information” on Mr. Trump “and then I’d say, ‘Really? He really said that?’ And they’d send me all the background and the video clip.” • Observing that Mr. Trump had not released his tax returns, Mrs. Clinton speculated that he might be “afraid” of voters seeing what they would reveal. “Maybe he isn’t as rich as he claims,” she said. • As Mr. Trump posted on Twitter to counter Mrs. Clinton’s remarks, she ticked off a list of foreign countries where Trump-branded products had been made. • The crowd laughed when Mrs. Clinton discussed Mr. Trump’s record with casinos in Atlantic City and the bankruptcies of his companies. She said Mr. Trump had “written a lot of books about business” and added, “They all seem to end at Chapter 11.” • Mrs. Clinton raised the controversy surrounding Trump University, which has been sued for fraud. “This is his one move. He makes over-the-top promises,” she said, “then everything falls apart and people get hurt.” • Invoking her deceased father’s small business, Mrs. Clinton said Mr. Trump had refused to pay contractors for work they had completed. “So I take this personally,” she said. • Wrapping a 45-minute speech, Mrs. Clinton reiterated a campaign theme — “Stronger Together”— and argued that Mr. Trump “believes in the worst of us.” As she spoke, the Trump campaign sent news releases to reporters raising questions about Mrs. Clinton’s conduct and judgment.