 Against the backdrop of another national mass shooting, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas plans to appear on Friday at an Iowa shooting range to demonstrate his dedication to the Second Amendment and gun rights. The event, at CrossRoads Shooting Sports in Johnston, Iowa, will highlight the formation of the campaign’s “Second Amendment Coalition,” to which more than 24,000 people have signed on, according to a campaign spokesman, Rick Tyler. Mr. Tyler said that the event had been arranged before the shooting on Wednesday in San Bernardino, Calif., and that the campaign had no discussion about rescheduling. While the shooting has renewed calls among Democrats for stricter gun control measures, Republicans like Mr. Cruz have thus far seen a different lesson in the tragedy. In a letter co-written by Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, Mr. Cruz on Thursday asked top members of the Obama administration to provide detailed information on the immigration histories of the shooting suspects. On Thursday morning, speaking before the Republican Jewish Coalition in Washington, Mr. Cruz said he feared the shooting was an example of “radical Islamic terrorism here at home, coming on the wake of the terror attack in Paris.” He did not discuss guns. In a Republican field crowded with self-described gun enthusiasts, Mr. Cruz has long cast himself as a Second Amendment protector of the highest order, calling gun ownership “the ultimate check against governmental tyranny.” At times, he has highlighted his support creatively. A video in August, from the right-leaning Independent Journal, captured Mr. Cruz making “machine-gun bacon” by wrapping strips around the barrel of a gun and firing repeatedly. “In Texas, we cook bacon a little differently than most folks,” Mr. Cruz said in the clip, before taking a bite. “Mmmm, machine-gun bacon.” Mr. Cruz has appeared at the Johnston range before, to some controversy. In June, The Associated Press drew criticism after publishing a photograph of Mr. Cruz’s remarks at the site that featured a poster image of a gun pointed at his head. Tom Hudson, the general manager of CrossRoads Shooting Sports, called the image “scathing.” He said other politicians had also visited, declaring the space “open to all the candidates of both parties.” For Mr. Cruz, who has made gains in Iowa polls recently on the strength of evangelical and Tea Party support, the site appears particularly suitable. On its website, the range says its “corporate purpose” is to “glorify God in all we do and be a positive influence to all who come in contact with CrossRoads Shooting Sports.”