 Basking in the glow of an overwhelming victory in his home state, Donald J. Trump on Tuesday night seemed — dare we say it — almost presidential, or at least a bit more refined.  He referred to his chief rival, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, as “senator” rather than the crude nickname he has favored, and offered a brief, even restrained, primary night toast from the lobby of Trump Towers. By Wednesday, however, Mr. Trump was back to his more familiar self. He opened an afternoon speech in Indianapolis by dinging Mr. Cruz as “Lyin’ Ted” (and re-upped his efforts to brand Hillary Clinton as “Crooked Hillary”), shouting to remove protesters from the rally and repeatedly returned to one of his favorite topics — trashing the news media.   “I love running against Crooked Hillary, I love that — it’s so much fun,” Mr. Trump said, adding, “I call her Crooked Hillary.”     Mr. Trump, who was interrupted several times by protesters, ordered them out with his trademark élan. “Get him out of here, get him out,” Mr. Trump said, as a man was removed. “Get! Him! Out! Of! Here!” (Though, in a nod to decorum, or perhaps his general election calculations, the New York real estate magnate was careful to warn his supporters not to hurt the protesters). He also broached a contentious topic he has discussed previously — his support for waterboarding, an enhanced interrogated technique banned under President Obama. Referring to an earlier debate, in which he supported the practice, Mr. Trump said: “I love it, I love it.”  “And I said, ‘The only thing is, we should make it much tougher than waterboarding,'” he continued. “And if you don’t think it works folks, you’re wrong. But you know there are laws, we have laws we have to abide by. So I said, we’re going to have to strengthen the laws and toughen up the laws. We’re going to have to make ourselves tougher.”  In his nearly hour-long remarks, Mr. Trump returned time and again to another favored target, calling the press corps “the worst,” “very dishonest people” and “terrible.”  “Do we like the media?” he asked the crowd. “No!” came the roared reply. “Do we hate the media?” Mr. Trump continued. “Yes!” his crowd shouted. But then, seeming to struggle with his more refined message — a deliberate effort by Mr. Trump and his newly expanded campaign team to prepare him for the rigors of a general election — Mr. Trump paused and turned, briefly, reflective. “No, I don’t hate anybody,” he said. “I love the media, they’re wonderful. But hey, I guess we wouldn’t be here, maybe, if it wasn’t for the media, so maybe we shouldn’t be complaining, right?”