 GREENVILLE, S.C. – Senator Marco Rubio of Florida shared his concerns about safety in football, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas sang a few bars, and Ben Carson opened up about why he left the medical field. In a town-hall event on CNN hosted by Anderson Cooper, before roughly 100 largely undecided voters, the candidates were given extended time – nearly an hour’s worth each — to explain their positions in a manner that comes across on the campaign trail, but rarely on the debate stage.   The negative campaigning that marked the rest of the day was still present, however. Less than a minute into Mr. Rubio’s segment, Mr. Cooper cited the Florida lawmaker’s comments from earlier in the day and asked: Is Mr. Cruz a liar? “If you say something that isn’t true and you say it over and over again, and you know it’s not true, there’s no other word for it,” Mr. Rubio said. Mr. Cruz said that he “laughed out loud” at a cease-and-desist letter from Donald J. Trump’s campaign over an ad, and called Mr. Trump’s insults of George W. Bush “ridiculous” and “really painful.” Yet  there was also some common ground. Mr. Rubio and Mr. Cruz said that they did not approve of President Obama’s announced plan to visit Cuba, saying they would not visit the country as long as the Castros are in power. Neither thought Mr. Obama should nominate a justice to replace Antonin Scalia. And they both agreed that Apple must find a way to strike a balance between private security and providing law enforcement with access to information, including breaking into the phone of the San Bernardino, Calif., attackers. And each often answered voters’ questions with material from their stump speeches. Mr. Cruz laid out how he would protect “religious liberty,” pointing, as he often does, to his record as solicitor general, and promising that “persecution for religious liberty ends today,” during a Cruz presidency. He also explained how his energy policy – “all of the above” in terms of oil, coal, wind, solar, nuclear and more – also called for an end to all subsidies, a position that caused him some headaches in Iowa that he eventually overcame. Mr. Rubio spoke at length about his experience with student loans, complete with his joke about writing a book to get out from under the debt – “It’s available in paperback,” – and on his record on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, which he said gave him a more sound foreign policy record than anyone else in the Republican field. Mr. Rubio is frequently asked about race and race issues on the campaign trail — in particular whether he, as a Cuban-American, ever felt the sting of racism. He recalled an often-shared story of being a young child in Las Vegas and facing some childhood teasing regarding the Mariel boatlift. But he then pivoted to today, and to the coveted endorsement from  Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina he received hours before the town hall, saying this was a sign of how far the country and his Republican Party have come. “I got the endorsement of a governor of Indian descent who endorsed a presidential candidate of Cuban descent, and tomorrow we will be campaigning alongside an African-American Republican senator, all here in South Carolina,” Mr. Rubio said to applause. “That says a lot about the Republican Party.” Mr. Rubio, for his part, seemed tired of the negative campaigning. When asked about the latest criticism from Mr. Cruz, in which he said Mr. Rubio was “behaving like Donald Trump with a smile,” Mr. Rubio laughed. “Donald smiles, I’ve seen him smile,” Mr. Rubio said before sighing. “This back-and-forth is silly.” Mr. Cruz agreed, somewhat, later on, before an extended critique of Mr. Trump and Mr. Rubio. “This is a strange election season,” he said. 