 
Updated, 3:38 p.m. | 
A ban on Muslim immigration. A wall along the border with Mexico. Decapitating the Islamic State. These were the dark themes featured in Donald J. Trump’s first television advertisement, set to hit the airwaves on Tuesday as the sprint to win the Iowa caucuses begins in earnest. Mr. Trump, the Republican presidential candidate leading most polls, said the ad would air in Iowa and New Hampshire. “I am very proud of this ad,” Mr. Trump said in a statement on Monday. “I don’t know if I need it, but I don’t want to take any chances.” The 30-second ad echoes the themes that Mr. Trump has emphasized on the trail and in videos that his campaign has posted on social media. It includes images of the San Bernardino, Calif., attackers, masked terrorists standing in front of Arabic script, exploding oil infrastructure and throngs of people running toward a border barrier. While other candidates and their “super PACs” have already been spending heavily on ads, Mr. Trump has so far avoided such investments because of the free news media attention he has garnered. He says that his campaign is $35 million under budget. He said he was planning to spend $2 million a week on the ads to promote his message of how he would “make America great again.” Mr. Trump has previously run radio ads, but his claims about his past spending on such advertising have been overstated. He said on Monday that he was preparing new radio ads to run in the first three nominating states of Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina. Pushing back against the notion that he is sexist, one of Mr. Trump’s ads will feature the first female Marine to serve in combat operations, and the other will be focused on the first female graduate of the Citadel. The television ad created controversy on Monday afternoon when Politifact found that the image that was purported to show Mexican immigrants racing to the United States border was in fact footage of Moroccan migrants crossing into Melilla, a small Spanish enclave. The Trump campaign said that the use of the clip was intentional and was “selected to demonstrate the severe impact of an open border” and the threat posed by illegal immigration.