 The Syrian refugee issue returns to Capitol Hill on Wednesday with Senate Republicans eager to bring up a bill passed by the House in November to tighten scrutiny of those entering the United States from Syria and Iraq. Senator Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican and majority leader, has set a vote for Wednesday afternoon on opening debate over the refugee measure, which was approved by the House before Thanksgiving in the immediate aftermath of the Paris terrorist attacks.  While 47 Democrats joined Republicans in speeding the measure through the House, the legislation’s politics have shifted slightly. After the Thanksgiving break, Congress turned its attention from the refugee issue to strengthening the Visa Waiver Program, which many lawmakers and the Obama administration identified as a greater vulnerability for allowing terrorists into the country, especially those with European passports. At the same time, critics of the refugee bill pointed to the extensive vetting that applicants undergo, arguing that the existing review would deter any terrorists, while tightening the program would penalize legitimate refugees fleeing violence in Iraq and Syria. Mr. McConnell took aim at those arguments on Tuesday.  “This debate should be driven by facts and common sense, not fear-mongering about targeting ‘widows and orphans’ or other straw-man arguments from the White House that demean a serious conversation,” he said. Over all, Republicans see little political downside in pressing the bill. Democrats were still drafting their strategy on Tuesday, but they could allow the debate to move ahead and then try to force Republicans to make some uncomfortable votes on amendments. Blocking the measure from the start could prove difficult for some Democrats, particularly if Mr. McConnell forces them to do so repeatedly, as he has in the past. Democrats will meet before the vote to work out their approach.
Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.