 CHARLOTTE, N.C. — If Bill Clinton felt raked over the coals during the Democratic debate on Sunday night, he didn’t seem sore about it on his three-city swing through North Carolina on Monday. Mr. Clinton was  disciplined as he stuck to his notes on his lecterns — a list of Hillary Clinton’s policy ideas and several examples of her as a “change-maker” — rather than defend the 1994 crime bill, the 1996 welfare reform law, the North American Free Trade Agreement, financial deregulation and other hallmarks of his tenure that were challenged and criticized at the debate. Most of those attacks came from Senator Bernie Sanders, Mrs. Clinton’s rival for the Democratic presidential nomination, but even Mrs. Clinton expressed concerns about how parts of her husband’s legacy turned out. Mr. Clinton, who has been known to go off script and give detailed history lessons about his presidency, kept the focus largely on his wife.  “I hope you’ll vote for her because she’s the single best change-maker I’ve ever known,” Mr. Clinton said, a signature line that he used in Raleigh, Greensboro and here before a predominantly African-American crowd at Johnson C. Smith University. His talking points included some charged shots at Mr. Sanders, but nothing on par with the Vermont senator’s rebukes of the Clinton era of the 1990s. Mr. Clinton did talk about some of the successes of the ’90s, such as the rise in African-American median income.  But mostly he explained why he thought Mrs. Clinton was the only candidate qualified to be both commander in chief and the leader on major domestic policy changes, and he derided the Republican candidates for not talking about substance as much as Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders were. “Our friends in the Republican Party look like they’re having a sixth-grade food fight,” Mr. Clinton said here. North Carolina’s primary is next Tuesday, although the early voting is now underway. Mr. Clinton has been known to lash out at opponents when they heap scorn on Mrs. Clinton or describe his presidency in ways he would not. But some allies of the couple said on Monday that the former president thought Mrs. Clinton did a good job at the debate of defending his legacy and explaining unintended problems with the welfare bill, which he himself has discussed in the past. He didn’t see a particular need to pounce on Mr. Sanders, they said, especially when Mrs. Clinton has built such a commanding lead over Mr. Sanders in the so-called pledged delegates needed to win the nomination.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.