 Updated, 3:04 p.m. | DES MOINES — Gov. Terry Branstad of Iowa harshly attacked Senator Ted Cruz of Texas on Tuesday over Mr. Cruz’s opposition to federal ethanol mandates, and he predicted the issue would erode Mr. Cruz’s lead in polls ahead of the state’s caucuses next month. “I’m convinced he may well lose this because of his stand on ethanol,’’ Mr. Branstad said in an interview. The governor, a Republican who does not plan to endorse a candidate, predicted a record turnout for both parties in the caucuses in 13 days.  A voter surge, he said, would benefit Donald J. Trump and, for Democrats, Senator Bernie Sanders. Mr. Branstad’s comments amplified remarks he made earlier in the day at the state’s Renewable Fuels Summit in Altoona, which hint at rising concern among Iowa’s corn-growers and the local politicians allied with them that Mr. Cruz may win the caucuses on Feb. 1. If he did, Mr. Cruz would be the first candidate to do so while pledging to phase out the federal ethanol standard, which requires corn-derived ethanol and other biofuels to be mixed with gasoline. Asked at the summit if he wanted Mr. Cruz to lose the Republican caucus race, Mr. Branstad said, simply, “Yes.’’ The ethanol mandate, like other kinds of primary-state subsidies and tax breaks long embraced by candidates of both parties, has come under increasing attack from Mr. Cruz and other conservatives, who regard the federal rules as an unwarranted subsidy to corn growers. Mr. Branstad, a mainstay of Iowa politics now serving his sixth term, is close to the state’s agriculture industry. (His son, Eric, helps lead America’s Renewable Future, a pro-ethanol group that has harried Mr. Cruz along the campaign trail in recent days.) Mr. Branstad’s vehement opposition to Mr. Cruz, who recently completed a six-day bus tour of Iowa, was a departure from the governor’s general boosterism for all candidates willing to compete heavily in the state. He also criticized Representative Steve King, Iowa’s most conservative House member, for supporting Mr. Cruz.  “Cruz may have the support of Steve King and a lot of people for stances on other issues, but the fact is his stand on renewable fuels is a big liability, and more and more Iowans are coming to that realization,’’ he said. In an interview with reporters recorded by Radio Iowa, Mr. King said, “That’s a de facto endorsement of Trump.’’ Mr. Trump spoke at the same renewable fuels summit as the governor. Mr. Branstad recently took Mr. Trump’s son Donald Jr. on a deer hunt, and he marveled at the big crowds Mr. Trump has drawn in the state. In a tweet later Tuesday, Mr. Cruz knocked Mr. Trump for trying to curry favor with establishment politicians. — Ted Cruz (@tedcruz) January 19, 2016 