 CONCORD, N.H. – The lady doth protest too much, he thinks. After Hillary Clinton complained Wednesday that Bernie Sanders had committed a “low blow” by saying she had been a progressive only on “some days,” Mr. Sanders defended his remark as being entirely appropriate. To back it up, he referred to a comment Mrs. Clinton had made in September: “You know, I get accused of being kind of moderate and center. I plead guilty.” “That’s what she said,” Mr. Sanders said at a news conference here Wednesday. “So this is not a low blow.” He went on: “There is nothing wrong with people who are moderates. Some of my best friends are moderates.” With that, supporters standing behind him started laughing. Mr. Sanders added for good measure, “If anybody doesn’t have that quote, we are happy to get it to you.” Mr. Sanders had called the news conference to talk about his opposition to the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement, and was appearing for the first time in the campaign with Secret Service protection.  He was less willing to assess President Obama’s progressiveness. Asked whether Mr. Obama, who has championed the trade agreement, was a progressive president, the independent democratic socialist spoke at length and admiringly about how the president “has been a leader in many, many respects.” Mr. Obama remains enormously popular with the base of the party the senator is trying to woo, and Mr. Sanders has repeatedly tried to embrace him politically.  Asked again if he thought Mr. Obama had been a progressive president, Mr. Sanders said: “I’m not going to put words – yes, I think he has, in general, been very progressive. I disagree with him on a number of issues.” It was Mrs. Clinton, and the Clinton campaign, that he wanted to talk about. Her campaign has accused him of hypocrisy for pledging not to make negative attacks on her while also criticizing her ties to Wall Street.  Pressed again and again at the news conference as to whether his raising the Wall Street qualified as negative attacks, Mr. Sanders repeatedly accused reporters of being fed information by the Clinton campaign. “I learned this about the Clinton campaign,” he said. “They are fantastic spinners. They can spin anything. Somebody from the Clinton campaign was going on, ‘Bernie Sanders has run the most negative campaign in the history of the Democratic primary process.’ I mean, total absurdity.”