 The most memorable interview I did with Nancy and Ronald Reagan was just before Thanksgiving 1981. We sat down aboard Air Force One on the way to California to talk about their routine at the ranch. Mrs. Reagan was eager to dispel the popular idea that the ranch was Mr. Reagan’s interest, and not hers. They had bought the ranch more than 25 years earlier, and they both worked to rebuild the ramshackle house on the property, she said. The president was going on about the hard work they undertook to redo the place.  “And we — WE — put that tile down,” Mrs. Reagan interrupted, referring to the veranda. “And WE painted that. Nobody will believe that, but it’s true,” she said.  Mr. Reagan then described how they had been pruning the woods on the hillside, and had looked over as Nancy was wrestling with a dead tree. Mr. Reagan yelled at her to stop, saying he would get to it. “All of a sudden, over it went,” Mr. Reagan said. “Peewee Powerhouse there had pushed over the tree.” What Lou Cannon said in his obituary of Mrs. Reagan, that there would have been no Reagan presidency without her, is true in my judgment. She was instrumental in reinforcing the dominance of the “pragmatists” as opposed to the “ideologues” of his first term. Without her support, James A. Baker III would not have been the dominant chief of staff that he was, negotiating the budget and tax deals that were the hallmark of the first term. She later advocated negotiating with Mikhail S. Gorbachev against the skeptics and of course helped push out Donald T. Regan as chief of staff after the Iran-Contra affair. Mr. Reagan was notoriously bad about remembering names. I remember, on one visit to the ranch, reporters asked him the name of his dog, a collie. Mr. Reagan suddenly looked puzzled and blurted out, “Lassie,” because it was the name of the TV collie. Nancy never forgot a name. I saw her a couple times whispering into Mr. Reagan’s ear the name of someone who was approaching he should have known. When I first met her, I mentioned that I had grown up in Beverly Hills, that my mother had gone to school with the wife of a member of the cabinet, and that I had even known Mr. Reagan’s son, Michael, growing up. She quizzed me intently about it and never forgot it when I saw her again. In December 1984, at the White House Christmas party, I told her I was about to go to India for The Times and I wouldn’t be covering the second term. “I knew that,” she said. “Wish us luck.”  Steven R. Weisman, the vice president for publications and communication at Peterson Institute for International Economics, covered the Reagan administration for The New York Times.