 Updated, 7:48 p.m. | Donald J. Trump has made his disdain for “super PACs” a central part of his stump speech. He criticizes candidates who get support from these outside groups, and his campaign sent a cease-and-desist letter to one super PAC that used his campaign slogan, and whose strategist had ties to his campaign manager. But Mr. Trump’s campaign has been less vocal about the Great America PAC, which was formed months ago under a different name and which says it spent more than $1 million in ads to support the candidate, although media trackers say they are only just now seeing signs of spending, and it is currently well below the $1 million marker. When Mr. Trump staged his own event with veterans instead of attending a Fox News debate in Iowa in January, a consultant named Eric Beach was in attendance. Mr. Beach, a veteran Republican operative from California who at the time was a supporter of Senator Rand Paul, is now overseeing fund-raising for Great America PAC. The Trump campaign sent letters to other super PACs last year urging them to shut down after questions emerged about the ties of its strategist to Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, and for using Mr. Trump’s campaign slogan to call itself, Make America Great Again PAC.  But the Great American PAC, which Mr. Beach is working for, received no such letter, according to the group’s lawyer, Dan Backer. A top ally of Mr. Paul, Jesse Benton, recently joined the super PAC. Mr. Beach, in an interview, said that the group is augmenting what the candidate is doing, not just through ads but also with a delegate operation to help bolster Mr. Trump’s chances of getting the nomination. It also will focus on raising smaller donations, Mr. Beach said. “The art of the super PAC really is to drive a message and to drive a narrative and capture a movement — it’s not to try to control what the candidate’s doing, and we fit that bill,” said Mr. Beach, who added that the goal is to capitalize on momentum. The super PAC is a hybrid, not only promoting the candidate, but also raising small-dollar donations that it sends directly to the campaign. The group’s first television ad was a positive spot. It has also asked Ben Carson and former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York to hold fund-raising events, two people briefed on the group’s activities said. Both were granted anonymity to discuss the group’s plan. It has also released a second spot, seemingly rushed with low-level graphics, asking viewers to call a 1-800 number and “Press 1 if you think it’s wrong to deny Trump the nomination through a contested convention.” The call eventually funnels those who push “1” to a live operator asking for donations of $50 or $75 to the group. Mr. Beach and aides to Mr. Trump declined to answer questions about whether they had met at any point to discuss the super PAC, which was originally called TrumPAC. The campaign asked the group to change its name several weeks ago, which led to Great America PAC. The group’s Federal Election Commission filings show it has spent more than $1 million making reservations for television ads, money that was spent on a group called Rapid Response Media. Mitchell West, of Kantar Media/CMAG, said his organization had seen no sign of its ad spending. Mr. Benton said the super PAC buys advertising time from DirectTV and the Dish Network, and said it does not show up on ad reservations. Another Kantar official, Elizabeth Wilner, said such advertising purchases are relatively new, since DirectTV and Dish only formed a partnership in 2014. Such an approach to advertising “certainly has its uses and it certainly has its limits,” she said. “And it is an effective tool, but it is not going to be replacing broadcast TV advertising anytime soon.”   Either way, she said, that advertising would show up in reservations tracked by her company.  On Wednesday afternoon, Kantar Media/CMAG picked up evidence of a national satellite reservation, at roughly $150,000 for the time being, but it was not an “addressable” buy, meaning it was not targeted toward any specific market or household; a national satellite buy of this nature is unusual.  