 Presenting himself as an uplifting alternative in a Republican race filled with fear mongering and negativity, Gov. John Kasich of Ohio urged voters on Tuesday to reject what he called the “path to darkness” in this year’s election. “This path solves nothing,” Mr. Kasich said in a half-hour address at the Women’s National Republican Club in Midtown Manhattan. “It demeans our history, it weakens our country and it cheapens each one of us.” Without naming Donald J. Trump or Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, Mr. Kasich drew a sharp distinction with his rivals, both in terms of tone and policy. Standing at a lectern with a sign that said “Two Paths,” he assailed those who take advantage of voters’ fears to “feed their own insatiable desires for fame or attention.”  “That could drive America down into a ditch and not make us great again,” Mr. Kasich said, echoing Mr. Trump’s campaign slogan. He said his opponents had offered “hollow promises” and “disturbing” proposals, such as Mr. Trump’s call for a temporary barring of Muslims entering the country and Mr. Cruz’s support for surveillance in Muslim neighborhoods. And Mr. Kasich said that pursuing a political strategy focused on “exploiting Americans instead of lifting them up” would lead to “divisions, paranoia, isolation and promises that can never, ever be fulfilled.”  “I say to you that this path to darkness is the antithesis of all that America has meant for 240 years,” he said. Mr. Kasich has carved out a place in the Republican field by taking a relentlessly positive tone, though he remains far behind Mr. Trump and Mr. Cruz in delegates. With little money to pay for advertising and no victories other than in his home state of Ohio, he is eager for moments that allow him to get his message in front of more voters, and the speech gave him a platform on which to present himself as a mature and hopeful option for Republicans put off by Mr. Trump and Mr. Cruz. The three candidates will vie for more delegates next Tuesday in the New York primary. Mr. Kasich urged voters to embrace an alternative path, one where people come together and “take strength from one another.” “Notwithstanding all of our challenges,” he said, “America is still great.”