 DemocratsWhen Hillary Clinton visited here last week, Mayor Kasim Reed gripped a microphone at City Hall and offered some words of reassurance: “Don’t worry about Georgia.” Mr. Reed’s assessment was prescient, and Mrs. Clinton picked up a commanding victory in a state whose 102 delegates made it one of Super Tuesday’s most valuable. The outcome in Georgia, especially in predominantly black areas, was a disappointment for Senator Bernie Sanders, who appeared at Morehouse College, which is historically black, last month. Mrs. Clinton’s widely expected victory was a reversal of her electoral fortunes in Georgia in 2008, when she lost to Barack Obama by 35 percentage points statewide and faltered in most counties in metropolitan Atlanta. But on Tuesday, news organizations projected Mrs. Clinton’s victory as soon as the polls closed. She was expected to win by significant margins in the state’s most populous counties, some of which are traditional Democratic strongholds in general elections. It was all too much for Mr. Sanders, who struggled to win the support of many African-American voters here. Exit polling indicated that at least eight in 10 black voters cast their ballots for Mrs. Clinton RepublicansIn the days before the Republican primary in Georgia, where 76 delegates were at stake, Senators Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio seemed to know that they could only square off for second place. On Tuesday night, Donald J. Trump showed why. Mr. Trump’s victory was projected by The Associated Press soon after voting ended on Tuesday, one day after he appeared at an enormous rally in Valdosta, near the Florida border. The outcome of the scramble to be the runner-up was far less clear. Although exit polls showed that Mr. Trump performed well among evangelical voters, a vast voting bloc in Republican politics in Georgia, he also captured the support of half of voters who said that a candidate’s religion did not matter. Mr. Trump may have benefited from decisions by some of the state’s leading Republicans not to endorse a candidate, but his support appeared widespread and, according to some polling, might have grown in the final days. Mr. Cruz and Mr. Rubio made late efforts in Georgia to cut into Mr. Trump’s support, and each other’s. Mr. Cruz made a pair of stops here on Saturday, while Mr. Rubio returned twice in three days. Mr. Rubio’s schedule showed a clearer play for voters in vote-rich metro Atlanta, but Mr. Cruz seemed to seek a broader blend of suburban and rural support. — ALAN BLINDER  DemocratsHillary Clinton narrowly won in Massachusetts, wresting from Senator Bernie Sanders one of the few Super Tuesday states he had seriously contested. Massachusetts was perceived as a must-win for Mr. Sanders: If he could not win a progressive Northeast state that had half a million college students and bordered his home state of Vermont, his viability elsewhere would be seriously questioned. And so he poured in resources here, visited twice in the last week and matched the Clinton ground game. But Mrs. Clinton had a lot going for her in Massachusetts, which has 116 delegates. She won the state in 2008 against Barack Obama by 16 percentage points. She had widespread institutional backing from Democratic officials, including the mayor of Boston, Martin J. Walsh. She raised more than $4 million from residents, almost three times as much as Mr. Sanders. And she significantly increased her television spending in the last week, though he still outspent her by more than two to one. Mr. Sanders did win over voters under 30 by nearly two to one, according to exit polls by Edison Research. But Mrs. Clinton did better among older voters, and led by double digits among those 30 to 44. Among voters with family incomes below $100,000, Mr. Sanders topped Mrs. Clinton by about 10 percentage points; among those with family incomes above that threshold, Mrs. Clinton won by about 20 points. RepublicansDonald J. Trump vanquished his opponents in the Massachusetts Republican primary on Tuesday, his projected victory declared moments after the polls closed. Nearly 20,000 Massachusetts voters dropped out of the Democratic Party in recent weeks and changed their affiliation to Republican — most likely to vote for Mr. Trump, according to Secretary of State William Galvin, a Democrat. Unenrolled voters can vote in either primary. Mr. Galvin said in an interview that he had seen such shifts in previous primaries, including in 2000, when Democrats switched parties to vote for Senator John McCain. But, he said, the movement this year was the most he has seen in such a short time frame. “It’s clearly all Trump-related,” he said. The state has plenty of angry white, working-class voters who were drawn to Mr. Trump, much as they were drawn to Scott Brown in his successful Senate race in 2010. Another factor believed to be in Mr. Trump’s favor here was that he was the least overtly religious of the candidates; like the rest of New England, Massachusetts is among the least religious states. Mr. Trump dominated nearly every demographic group, losing only among voters with postgraduate degrees, who supported Senator Marco Rubio, according to exit polls by Edison Research. Mr. Trump’s several visits to the state and outspoken admiration for the Patriots quarterback Tom Brady probably did not hurt, nor did Mr. Brady’s reciprocal support. — KATHARINE Q. SEELYE DemocratsHillary Clinton’s commanding victory in Texas on Tuesday showed that her appeal to minority voters extends to Hispanics as well as African-Americans, whose support had propelled her landslide win three days earlier in South Carolina. Mrs. Clinton defeated Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, whose strength with Hispanic voters in the Nevada caucuses had worried the Clinton campaign. Mrs. Clinton’s share of Texas’ 252 delegates, more than twice the number at stake in any other Democratic race on Tuesday, should widen a gap that is increasingly difficult mathematically for Mr. Sanders to bridge. The victory was expected after Mrs. Clinton had led in Texas polls by double digits before Tuesday. Mr. Sanders rarely campaigned in the state in recent days, instead focusing on states outside the South where Democratic turnout is not as heavily Hispanic and African-American. About three in 10 voters were Hispanic, according to exit polls by Edison Research, and about two-thirds of them supported Mrs. Clinton. Hispanics accounted for about one in three registered Democrats in Texas in 2012, and they participated in the 2014 midterm elections at a higher rate than blacks, according to exit polls. Eight in 10 black voters supported her, according to the exit polls taken Tuesday. RepublicansSenator Ted Cruz carried his home state of Texas on Tuesday, a must-win for his campaign that may strengthen his assertion that he alone is the viable alternative in a head-to-head contest with Donald J. Trump after an earlier victory in the Iowa caucuses. Two in three Texas Republicans said in exit polls by Edison Research that they would be satisfied with Mr. Cruz as the nominee, compared with fewer than half who would be satisfied with Mr. Trump. Hispanics represented about 10 percent of voters,and almost a third of them supported Mr. Cruz. No candidate won a higher share of their votes. Voters were split over whether illegal immigrants should have a path to legal status or should be deported. From the day Mr. Cruz entered the race, he was focused on the seven Southern states voting on Tuesday, but he has watched Mr. Trump snatch away white evangelical Christians and Tea Party voters who he hoped would form a Cruz coalition. Mr. Cruz, who won his Senate seat in 2012 as an uncompromising outsider, ended up retreating to Texas — where 155 delegates were at stake, the most of any state voting on Tuesday — as if it were his own personal Alamo. On Monday, he held rallies in Dallas, San Antonio and Houston, assuring supporters, “We’re going to have a very good Super Tuesday.” And despite leading a government shutdown in 2013, Mr. Cruz lost the anti-establishment mantle to Mr. Trump. — TRIP GABRIEL DemocratsEight years ago, Hillary Clinton lost the Democratic primary in Virginia by a wide margin to Barack Obama. On Tuesday night, it was a far different story, with the race being called in her favor over Senator Bernie Sanders almost as soon as the polls closed. Mrs. Clinton’s win appeared attributable, in large part, to Democratic voters in favor of the status quo. Six in 10 voters said the next president should generally continue President Obama’s policies, and these voters overwhelmingly supported Mrs. Clinton, according to exit polls conducted by Edison Research. Another important demographic in Mrs. Clinton’s win appeared to be blacks, who accounted for about a quarter of Democratic primary voters in the state, according to exit polls. More than eight in 10 of them supported Mrs. Clinton, who also won a majority of white voters. The top issue to Democratic primary voters in Virginia was the economy, and the candidate quality most important to voters was experience. Mrs. Clinton won the support of two-thirds of voters who cited the economy, and more than nine in 10 voters who prioritized experience. Even as she led in polls, Mrs. Clinton campaigned Monday in Virginia, where 110 delegates were at stake. RepublicansDonald J. Trump won Virginia, staving off an effort by Senator Marco Rubio to make it a closer race than some polls predicted. Voters who supported Mr. Trump appeared to strike a sharp contrast with those who backed Mr. Rubio, according to exit polls conducted by Edison Research. Mr. Trump won among men, lower-income and less-educated voters, conservatives, veterans, evangelicals and those who preferred a government outsider. Mr. Rubio seemed to take a larger share of women, while winning among well-educated and higher-income voters, and those who favored political experience. Mr. Trump led with 35 percent of the vote, with 93 percent of precincts reporting. Mr. Rubio was second, with 32 percent, having pulled in a larger share of votes in suburban areas near Washington like Fairfax County. What appeared to make it a narrower race was Mr. Rubio’s broad appeal. A majority of voters said they would be satisfied with Mr. Rubio as the nominee, while only about four in 10 said they would be satisfied with either Mr. Trump or Senator Ted Cruz. About three in 10 voters leaving Republican primary sites identified as independents, exit polls showed. Back in November, Mr. Trump was the first of the Republican candidates to submit signatures for the primary in Virginia, where there were 49 delegates at stake, awarded proportionately. — STEVE EDER