 MANCHESTER, N.H. — Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who on Thursday found himself under a double-barreled assault from Jeb Bush and Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey over his preparedness to be president, chalked up his rivals’ attacks to fear that they will lose to him in the New Hampshire primary next week. And he pointed to his experience on the Senate Intelligence Committee — and the access he has to classified information — as a credential that no one else in the race has. “I think it’s silly. That’s how I respond,” Mr. Rubio told reporters about Mr. Bush’s and Mr. Christie’s criticism. “Look, when people are having a tough time in a campaign, especially near the end, you see some desperation set in and so they’ll start saying things. But I’m not too worried about that.” Mr. Rubio chose not to dwell on the subject, delivering just a short response. Nor did he give anything but a general answer about how he was proud of his record as a public servant. And in deflecting questions about his accomplishments as a public servant for two decades — he has served in local, state and federal office — he said his campaign was focused not on the past but on the future. Pressed by reporters again, Mr. Rubio said: “The bottom line is, I’m proud of my service and public record. We have real achievements, not just in the U.S. Senate but in my time as speaker of the House and in the state Legislature.”  “We’re focusing on what we’re going to do moving forward.”  In his exchanges with voters here earlier in the day, Mr. Rubio, 44, was a bit more specific. Asked about his rivals’ attacks that he lacks significant legislative accomplishments, Mr. Rubio noted that he was speaker of the House in Florida, the country’s third-largest state, and he pointed to bipartisan legislation he had worked on in the Senate that tackled issues at the Department of Veterans Affairs. And he cited his work on human-trafficking legislation. But it was his experience with national security that he said was the most significant. “As a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I have access to the most classified information in this government — equal basically to what the president sees except not at the same time. No one else in the race has access to that. I’ve had it for four or five years,” he said.  “When I become president, on my first day that I get a briefing, I’ll have known that information because it will be current to me. Because I’ve been doing it for five years,” Mr. Rubio said. 