 WATERLOO, Iowa – Russell Hotchkiss and Cory Vieth, both small business owners, were like hundreds of others who came to a Donald J. Trump rally on Wednesday. Both were attracted to Mr. Trump’s subtle-as-a-hammer oratory, his promise to make America tops in all things, and the novelty of the leading candidate of a major party who is unlike any conventional politician.   “He’s different from everybody else I’ve ever seen, I think that’s why I’m here,’’ said Mr. Vieth, a technology consultant.   The two Iowans also shared something else with many others in the crowd: neither had ever participated in the state’s caucuses. They were unsure where they might be at 7 p.m. on Feb. 1, 2016, which is likely to be a cold midwinter evenings, just like the other caucus nights in the history of this extremely low-turnout affair, which historically has attracted only the most committed party activists. “I have a feeling that when it comes down to voting there will be a falloff,’’ Mr. Vieth said.  “People are attracted to the glamour now. He’s famous and fun to talk about.’’  That is the known unknown for Mr. Trump in the nation’s first nominating contest. He must convert the avid interest in him now being expressed in polls and at rallies into votes. But the history of going to caucuses in Iowa shows that the best predictor of whether someone will turn out is past attendance.    In interviews before and after Mr. Trump spoke in Waterloo on Wednesday, only 2 of about 20 people said they had ever caucused. Randy Barkema, a salesman for a convenience store distributor, had never wanted to take the time to participate.  His wife, Patty Barkema, a nurse, skipped the box on the form for reserving a ticket to hear Mr. Trump that asked if she would caucus for him. “I have never been to anything like that,’’ she said. The Trump campaign says Iowans who are caucus newcomers represent a big opportunity to expand the pool of participants, and they will deliver victory to Mr. Trump commensurate with his current five-percentage-point lead in state polls.  “We’re thinking this is going to be a historical caucus and I think you’re gong to see some phenomenal numbers turn out,’’ said John Hulsizer Jr., a senior campaign adviser for Mr. Trump in Iowa.  But most Republican strategists in the state say that many campaigns have tried to expand the electorate before, and many have failed. In the two recent elections without an incumbent Republican president, only one in five registered Republicans turned out to caucus. The vote totals were similar: 121,500 in 2012 and 119,000 in 2008. Dennis Bunger, a retired John Deere factory manager, and his wife, Penny Bunger, enjoyed Mr. Trump’s hourlong speech in Waterloo, which as usual was wide-ranging and highly entertaining. But the Bungers spend their winters in Florida and won’t be in Iowa on caucus day.  Judy Kruse, who works in health care, said she was conservative, although no past Republican presidential hopeful – including Rick Santorum, Mike Huckabee or Michele Bachmann – inspired her to show up to vote for them in the caucuses. “I didn’t believe in what a lot of the candidates were trying to accomplish,’’ she said.  Mike Meier, retired from a paving company, wore a lanyard with a badge reading “volunteer” as he handed out Trump signs. He said he had never gone to a caucus, nor “one of these things neither,’’ meaning a candidate rally.  In close to an hour speaking at the Electric Park Ballroom, a dance club across from a sprawling John Deere foundry, Mr. Trump covered his familiar talking points about illegal immigration, China, Iran and the incompetence of elected officials. He said he supported free trade, then added a minute later he would tax Chinese imports 32 percent. His bombast drew cheers and laughter.  “The next president has to be great, thank you very much,’’ he said.   “With everything else, I’m writing books!’’ he exclaimed, offering a plug for a coming tome called “Crippled America.’’     But he left for the very end an appeal to support him at the polls. “Only four months until that big day, that special day,’’ he said, in what seemed at best a halfhearted pitch from the self-described master deal-maker.   “Caucus!’’ shouted an attendee, reminding people who may have been unfamiliar with the concept. 