 Here’s how we analyzed the Republican debate, and fact checked. HOUSTON — With less than a week to go before 12 states cast their ballots on Super Tuesday, the remaining Republican presidential candidates gathered here for their final debate before the vote. These were the highlights: • The first question of the debate focused on immigration, as Donald J. Trump and Senator Marco Rubio disagreed over each other’s record on immigration. Mr. Rubio accused Mr. Trump of shifting his position on immigration, and for hiring illegal immigrants at his hotels. Mr. Trump defended his past, saying it was the only help he could get, and shot back at Mr. Rubio: “I’m the only one on the stage who has hired anyone.” • The criticism of Mr. Trump would continue for most of the night, with Mr. Rubio accusing him again of using illegal immigration to build his properties and that his name brand ties are made in China. Mr. Trump shot back that it made for a “such a cute sound bite,” but Mr. Rubio was undeterred. “Make them in America,” he said repeatedly to Mr. Trump. • As Senator Ted Cruz and Mr. Trump argued over deportation, Gov. John Kasich offered a more moderate stance on immigration, proclaiming “I don’t think we’re going to tear families apart.” He favored a guest worker program, and a path to legal status, not citizenship. Ben Carson also backed a guest worker program, but “they do not become American citizens, they do not vote.” • Mr. Trump promised that “religious liberty” would be a litmus test for nominating a Supreme Court justice, while Mr. Cruz promised to nominate a strict constitutionalist. But the debate over the court quickly turned into a battle between the two, as Mr. Trump pointed to Mr. Cruz’s support of Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. as a worrisome point in his record, saying Justice Roberts gave the country “Obamacare,” or “might as well be called ‘Robertscare.’” •  Mr. Trump, asked about Mitt Romney’s insinuations regarding his unreleased tax returns, attributed the delay in releasing them is because he is being “audited right now for two or three years.” He added: “you don’t learn anything about anyone’s wealth from a tax return.” • Mr. Kasich said that he thought religious liberty should not interfere with business. “If you’re in the business of commerce, conduct commerce,” he said, adding that “If you don’t agree with their lifestyle, say a prayer for them later.” • As Mr. Rubio challenged Mr. Trump’s position on the Affordable Care Act, Mr. Trump said he would keep “pre-existing conditions” and remove “the lines around the states” to allow insurance companies to compete nationally, an idea he repeated verbatim when challenged. “Now he’s repeating himself,” Mr. Rubio said with a smile. • Mr. Cruz accused Mr. Trump of supporting “socialized medicine,” something Mr. Trump flatly denied. But he also added he would not let people go untreated. “Call it what you want, people are not going to be dying on the street,” Mr. Trump said. • Debating the crisis in the Middle East, Mr. Trump reiterated his pro-Israel position, but added that “it doesn’t do any good to start demeaning the neighbors,” as he hoped to make peace there a key goal of his administration. Mr. Rubio said that was an anti-Israel position, and Mr. Cruz retorted saying he would “stand unapologetically with the nation of Israel.” • Mr. Kasich said he would “love to see regime change in North Korea,” but stopped short of saying he would risk military intervention, noting it would “depend on what the situation was.” The Chinese, in Mr. Kasich’s view, were best positioned to force regime change in North Korea. • As Mr. Trump, Mr. Rubio and Mr. Cruz continued to argue over Israel, flinging insults like “liar” and “choke artist,” Mr. Carson, who has received the least amount of speaking time, grew frustrated. “Could somebody attack me please?” • A rare moment of agreement in a very contentious debate: Mr. Cruz, Mr. Rubio and Mr. Carson all said that Apple should comply with a court order to allow the F.B.I. to investigate the iPhone from one of the San Bernardino shooters.