 BURBANK, Calif. – The last time President Obama appeared on the “Ellen DeGeneres Show,” when he was a long-shot candidate for the White House in October 2007, he boogied obligingly with Ms. DeGeneres in the ritual welcome dance that she does with her guests.  There was no dancing on Thursday when Mr. Obama made a return visit as president, taping a show that will air on Friday. But he was willing to clown around in other ways, reciting a Valentine’s Day poem to his wife, Michelle, after watching her read a poem to him (via videotape) from the White House. “Roses are red, violets are blue, you are the president, and I am your boo,” Mrs. Obama said. She told Ms. DeGeneres that she was the only person with whom she would share her husband on Valentine’s Day; then Mrs. Obama ordered him to bring her back chocolates. “Somebody call the Situation Room because things are about to get hot,” Mr. Obama replied, having allowed Ms. DeGeneres to escort him to a floor strewn with rose petals and her band to strike up romantic background music. “Michelle, this Valentine’s Day, I’m going to treat you right,” he said.  In fact, Mr. Obama will be spending Cupid’s day without her, playing golf in Rancho Mirage, Calif., before convening a meeting of Southeast Asian leaders next week. Mr. Obama was otherwise in a reflective mood on the show, taking stock of his seven years in office and talking about what he will miss most when he leaves the White House. At the top of the list: Air Force One. When Ms. DeGeneres asked him if he would go back to flying on commercial airlines as a private citizen, he replied with an emphatic “No.” “I don’t miss flying commercial,” the president said. “Taking your shoes off, and all that.” That led to an awkward exchange about the unsavory aspects of removing one’s shoes. “I didn’t in any way insinuate you have stinky feet,” Ms. DeGeneres told the president. “I’ve got pretty nice feet,” Mr. Obama replied. “I don’t have a bunch of stuff on my feet.” As for what he looks forward to after the White House, Mr. Obama said he was relishing the prospect of going for a walk on a nice day. Early in his term, he told Ms. DeGeneres, he had asked his aides about the possibility of venturing out in disguise. A friend who works on Broadway even sent him a mustache to get him started, he said, but the idea went nowhere.  He also said he looked forward to getting behind the wheel of a convertible, provided he could negotiate it with the Secret Service. “Maybe they can tail me,” he said. “That’s my hope.” On a day when the political world was watching Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont debate about who was best qualified to succeed him, Mr. Obama seemed more aware than ever of the passage of time. Ms. DeGeneres asked him whether he dreaded that his older daughter, Malia, a high-school senior, would leave for college next fall. “It’s hard,” he said. But he added, “She’s ready to go. She’s a really smart, capable person, and she’s ready to make her way.”  He could have been speaking about himself.