 The Pennsylvania Republican Party’s annual Commonwealth Club luncheon on Friday is usually a festive affair and a lucrative fund-raiser. But this year, the lavish event, held at the Plaza Hotel in New York City with ticket prices starting at $1,000 a plate, has been overshadowed by controversy. Its keynote speaker is Donald J. Trump. After Mr. Trump’s plan to bar Muslims from coming to America, Republican lawmakers have been distancing themselves from the billionaire real estate mogul and those from the Keystone State are in the same boat. Those going to the event say that more than a dozen Republicans have backed out in disdain for Mr. Trump’s call for a moratorium on Muslims. “I’ve heard of folks who aren’t coming,” said Val DiGiorgio, chairman of the Chester County Republican Party. “People have expressed disappointment with the choice, especially with the comments from the last week.” The backlash could be a preview of what local candidates might face if Republicans pick Mr. Trump as the party’s nominee. A protest is scheduled to take place before the noon event and the liberal group Keystone Progress has garnered nearly 11,000 signatures on a petition seeking to have Mr. Trump removed from the event. Mr. DiGiorgio said that there had been calls from within the party to rescind Mr. Trump’s invitation to headline the lunch, which is supposed to have about 300 attendees, but that organizers resisted the idea. Several of Pennsylvania’s top lawmakers say they are staying home to work on the budget, others cited scheduling problems, and some, such as Representative Patrick Meehan, have publicly expressed concerns about associating publicly with Mr. Trump. While the luncheon will bring big dollars to the party’s coffers, Democrats have made it clear that Republicans could pay a price for letting Mr. Trump raise money for them. “After Donald Trump’s latest offensive attack on the Muslim community, it’s simply not enough for Pennsylvania Republicans to just skip Friday’s fundraiser when the proceeds will benefit their campaigns,” said Jermaine House, a spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. Josh Shapiro, chairman of the Board of Commissioners in Montgomery County, said that local officials who were running for office and attending the lunch should have to answer for Mr. Trump’s policies. “I think it is a legitimate issue to ask of a Republican in the election next year,” Mr. Shapiro, a rising star in the state’s Democratic Party, said. “Do you side with Donald Trump? Do you want to ban all Muslims from the country? That’s an important question that any nominee for office is going to have to answer.”