 HOUSTON – Inside a sprawling hotel conference hall here, where donors to his flagging campaign had gathered for an update, Jeb Bush was describing a complication of his bilingualism. “You speak in Spanish, it comes across that you’re more animated,” he explained, adding, “Just saying the exact same thing in English — in English there’s a cultural difference.” The man next to him onstage could not resist the setup. “At least,” George W. Bush chimed in, “you can speak English.” For the marquee event of a two-day retreat, Jeb and George W. Bush appeared side-by-side for about 45 minutes, riffing on family, faith and a presidential race that has not gone according to plan. The former president fiercely defended the former Florida governor, casting him as someone who could not only “handle the pressures of the job” but could also earn enough support from Hispanics to win it. “It’s going to be essential that we not ignore the Latino vote or irritate the Latino vote,” George W. said, according to an audio tape provided by a pool reporter. “A lot of politics is relational,” he said. “‘Can that person relate to me? Does that person understand how I think?’” He suggested that Jeb’s marriage to his wife, Columba, who was born in Mexico, could help persuade Latino voters that he understood them unusually well. Throughout the chat, George W. flashed the charm and wisecracking humor that marked his own political campaigns – but which do not always come as easily to his younger brother. He could not resist an aside when Jeb recalled creating “a lot of my own crises” as he sought changes in Florida. “You may want to reconsider that,” the former president said. Earlier, he joked that their mother, Barbara, who was in attendance alongside their father, George, rarely cooked – unless “you call pouring a little Hormel out of the box into a boiling pot of water cooking.” “I remember it differently, Mom,” Jeb said loyally. “Yeah,” George W. shot back, to laughs, “you’re running for office.” The former president went on to recall a commencement speech in which he had assured C students: “You, too, can be president.” “Wait a second – you’ve made a good living off of self-deprecating humor,” Jeb said, pushing back admiringly. For all the jokes, Jeb said, his older brother had earned better grades in college than Al Gore and John Kerry — “the two candidates that you whooped like nobody’s business,” he added. As the crowd murmured, presumably reflecting Mr. Gore’s victory in the 2000 popular vote, Jeb adjusted: “Close enough,” he said. “And you actually were, you know, a human being,” he added, contrasting his brother’s image with the stodgier reputations of Mr. Gore and Mr. Kerry. “You cared about people, you connected with people. It’s a nice combination to have.” At one point, the conversation turned to disaster relief, a fraught topic given long-held criticisms of George W.’s response to Hurricane Katrina. But the two brothers had nothing but rave reviews for each other. Jeb trumpeted his own record in the face of several hurricanes and tropical storms in Florida (“I can testify to that; I was the president,” George W. said), and recalled there was “never a complaint” with the federal government from Florida’s perspective. “We recovered faster than other states that had a hard time,” Jeb said. George W. said that in a hurricane, “the primary responsibility for recovery is the state, as it should be,” and praised Florida’s efforts under his brother. Jeb returned the favor during a discussion of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, alluding to Donald J. Trump’s criticisms of the Bush administration’s national security record. “It shows a lack of seriousness,” he said. As the forum neared its end, the moderator, Helen Ferre, called on Barbara Bush, who noted that both of her boys were getting white hair. “How do you think I got white hair?” Mrs. Bush asked. “Because I raised two older sons who caused me nothing – ” “But joy!” George W. interjected. “Caused me nothing,” Mrs. Bush said to laughs, trailing off before a coda: “Jeb is going to be the next president.”