 Hillary Rodham Clinton’s campaign announced Tuesday that it had secured the endorsement of more than 50 current and former African-American mayors.  Mayor Ivy R. Taylor of San Antonio was not one of them. On Monday, the campaign released a list of “Hillary’s Texas Leadership Council” that included endorsements in the Lone Star State. That list had included Mrs. Taylor, one of the most prominent African-American women to lead a major American city. But Mrs. Taylor promptly said that she had not endorsed Mrs. Clinton for president and did not plan on doing so. Mrs. Clinton met briefly with Mrs. Taylor before a campaign rally in San Antonio last Thursday, when Julian Castro, the city’s former mayor and now the secretary of housing and urban development, delivered a robust endorsement of Mrs. Clinton alongside his twin brother, Representative Joaquin Castro, Democrat of Texas, who has also endorsed Mrs. Clinton.  In the meeting, Mrs. Taylor expressed her support and said she would help the campaign however she could, according to a person briefed on the meeting. But after the campaign included Mrs. Taylor on its list of mayoral endorsements on Monday, the mayor’s office released a statement saying that she had also met with Carly Fiorina, a Republican presidential candidate. “The mayor appreciates the service of Secretary Clinton, Mrs. Fiorina and all the candidates for president,” said Mrs. Taylor’s spokeswoman, Leslie Garza. However, because the mayor’s position is nonpartisan, Ms. Garza added, “Mayor Taylor will not be making an endorsement or supporting any candidate.” Shortly after The Texas Tribune reported the mix-up with Mrs. Taylor, another Democratic official on the list who is also African-American, Tommy Calvert, a commissioner in Bexar County, which includes San Antonio, said he had also been erroneously included on the campaign’s Texas endorsement list. He told the Tribune that he had expressed to three separate campaigns staff members that he was not endorsing Mrs. Clinton. “I don’t know how there could be any confusion,” he said. Last week, Mr. Calvert attended a debate-watch party on behalf of the Clinton campaign and its supporters. He promoted the event on a “San Antonio for Hillary” Facebook page and spoke favorably about Mrs. Clinton and her campaign, along with other supporters like Leticia Van de Putte, a former state senator who lost a runoff election in June to Mrs. Taylor.  But on Monday, after it was reported that he had endorsed Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Calvert wrote on Facebook, “While I appreciate her service and her candidacy, I have not endorsed anyone in the presidential election.”  In an interview on Tuesday, Mr. Calvert said he attended the debate-watch party because it was in his precinct and that he believed the mixup was an innocent mistake. “I think it was just a matter of the left hand not knowing what the right hand was doing,” he said.  He also said he had spoken to campaign volunteers, not to paid staff members. Asked whether he would consider endorsing Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Calvert said “It’s always important to know all of your potential choices” before endorsing.  A Clinton campaign official pointed to the 89 endorsements Mrs. Clinton had secured in Texas as evidence of her deep support in the traditionally Republican state.