 Donald J. Trump holds a wide lead over Senator Marco Rubio in his home state of Florida, but trails Senator Ted Cruz on his turf in Texas, according to two new polls of coming primary contests that could ultimately determine the Republican presidential nomination. Having won three consecutive states, Mr. Trump could deal a decisive blow to his two leading rivals if he manages to beat them in their states next month. Mr. Trump also leads Gov. John Kasich of Ohio in his state, according to a poll that came out this week.  In Florida, a Quinnipiac University poll released on Thursday shows Mr. Trump with a strong upper hand. He has the support of 44 percent of likely Republican primary voters, while Mr. Rubio is backed by 28 percent. Trailing them are Mr. Cruz at 12 percent, Mr. Kasich at 7 percent and Ben Carson at 4 percent. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points. “Florida is the single biggest prize of the primary season because it is the largest state to allocate its delegates on a winner-take-all basis,” Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the Quinnipiac University poll, said in statement. “If Senator Rubio can’t win in his own home state, it is difficult to see how he can win elsewhere.” In a sign of his dominance in Florida, which holds its election on March 15, Mr. Trump leads Mr. Rubio among men, women and across all age groups. He also has twice as much support as Mr. Cruz among evangelical Christians, a group that was supposed to be most passionate about the Texas Republican. On the bright side for Mr. Cruz, a separate poll released on Thursday by Monmouth University showed him topping Mr. Trump handily in Texas. Of likely Republican primary voters, 38 percent back the senator in his home state, 23 percent support Mr. Trump, 21 percent plan to vote for Mr. Rubio and the rest of the field lags in the low single digits. The survey has a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points. In Texas, Mr. Cruz does best with male voters and those who consider themselves to be very conservative, and nearly half of the voters who cast their ballots early are backing him. While Mr. Trump is popular in the state, many voters remain wary of his candidacy and 28 percent of them said they would be upset if he won the nomination. “Cruz looks to be well-positioned in Texas,” Patrick Murray, director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute, said about one of the biggest contests, in terms of delegates, in next week’s “Super Tuesday” state voting contests. “The challenge for him is that a lot of other states are also on the slate.”