 Inside the pink marbled atrium of the Trump Tower on Tuesday, Donald J. Trump, the salesman, signed copies of his new book by the armload, gleefully demanding to know precisely how long the line of buyers had become on 56th Street. “Is it all the way to Madison Avenue?” he asked an aide. Inside the same lobby, Donald J. Trump, the presidential candidate, leveled a blistering attack on Senator Marco Rubio, his surging Republican opponent, mocking his reputation for shaky finances. “He is a disaster with credit cards,” Mr. Trump said. “All you have to do is look.” In one moment, he held the hand of an Army veteran in a wheelchair, who had traveled from Pennsylvania to buy Mr. Trump’s latest book. “How are you doing, darling?” he inquired of her. In the next, he took a personal swipe at Jeb Bush, saying he was incapable of performing an impression of the former Florida governor because “I don’t like showing a person sleeping at a podium.” Trump the Campaign and Trump the Marketing Machine are always difficult to disentangle. But whatever thin buffer had kept them separated the last few months evaporated on Tuesday as Trump the Book ($25) went on sale inside Trump the Building ($45 for the prix fixe lunch) during an hourslong spectacle that captured all the bizarre, endearing and comedic strands of his current career. At a moment when interest in his candidacy has started to flag, Mr. Trump did what he does best: He sold something with his name attached to it. “Crippled America,” a slender campaign manifesto, clocking in at a breezy 169 pages, went on sale with its author promising to autograph copies. Hundreds of people showed up to find Mr. Trump, sitting atop a perfect replica of his oversize swiveling leather chair, holding court in Midtown Manhattan atop a freshly vacuumed red carpet. “Bernie Sanders — what do you think?” he asked Kevin Ryan, who, after plunking down $27.22 (with tax) for the book, told Mr. Trump that he was from Mr. Sanders’s home state of Vermont. Mr. Ryan replied that Mr. Sanders was a formidable opponent and warned Mr. Trump against letting down his guard should the senator become the Democratic presidential nominee. Next up: a young man who said his name was Jason Scoop and who theatrically lifted his sleeve to show Mr. Trump a tattoo. Mr. Trump leapt out of his chair. “Look at this!” he demanded of the crowd. In an unexpected and permanent tribute, the young man had engraved Mr. Trump’s name across his arm. “That’s the real deal,” Mr. Trump said. “I won’t let you down.” Sure enough, he did not: Mr. Scoop became an instant sensation with the dozens of photographers assembled nearby, plugging his comedy act and his YouTube page. When a man with a skullcap approached, book in hand, Mr. Trump wasted little time in trying to relate. “We are going to save Israel,” he assured the man. On and on it went, with Mr. Trump determined to show that low energy, the quality that he despises in other, lesser men, would never afflict him. After signing about 100 books, with a trademark squiggle that resembles the Manhattan skyline he covets, somebody asked him if his arm was growing tired. “No,” he replied, with a mischievous smile. “No problem.” Mr. Trump effortlessly switched back and forth between book signing and politicking. At a news conference on Tuesday morning, he alternated between boasts about how hard he had labored on the book and broadsides against his Republican rivals. Mr. Rubio “lives above his means.” Ben Carson “does not have that energy.” Mr. Bush has “a very weak message.” Venturing into new territory, he mocked the billionaire financier Paul Singer, who has decided to back Mr. Rubio, suggesting that the world would soon learn unsettling but unspecified details about him. “When you see where he is coming from, they will say, ‘Whoa, we didn’t know that.’ ” Back at the book signing, Mr. Trump’s team did its best to bring efficiency to a time-consuming and slow-moving task. “Can you put down your phone, please?” a Trump aide asked a woman who seemed distracted by a device as she approached Mr. Trump’s desk. When a man tried to sneak a copy of Mr. Trump’s first major book, “The Art of the Deal,” onto the table for a signature alongside his newer title, a security guide intervened, swatting away the older volume. (Mr. Trump overruled and signed it anyway.) About an hour into autographing books, amid the sea of humanity and endless small talk, the businessman visibly struggled to evince enthusiasm. He reminded book buyers to hustle. “I’ve got a lot of people out there,” he said several times. Not everyone obliged. One man wondered at length if Mr. Trump was having back problems, since he had seemed to hunch over a microphone at a recent campaign event. (No, said Mr. Trump.) One woman shrieked his name and kept declaring “I love you, Donald. I love you.” (Mr. Trump smiled.) The long lines did not stop Mr. Trump’s coterie from sneaking in friends and family members, who brazenly cut the line and posed for photographs with Mr. Trump, to the frustration of those who had waited for up to six hours. Still, those who found an audience with him, however brief, seemed genuinely moved by the experience. “It was inspiring,” said David Whalen, whose wife, Ann Marie, was the Army veteran in the wheelchair. The couple said they were skeptical, for months, that Mr. Trump was really running for president. “We thought it was a stunt.” Now they are believers. “He will go all the way,” said Mr. Whalen. “A citizen-politician,” said Mrs. Whalen. “Finally.” The long wait yielded inevitable disappointments. Mr. Ryan, the Trump supporter from Vermont, opened his Trump-signed book to find a signature he could barely read. “I don’t like his signature,” he said. “I like a nice, legible signature.” But he was in a forgiving mood. “It’s O.K.,” said Mr. Ryan. “I can overlook the signature for a good president.”