 Iowans head to their local caucus precincts a week from Monday — and Jeb Bush on Tuesday is headed to … Elko, Nev. Yes, that’s right, Elko — where fewer than 1,000 people typically show up to caucus. The Bush campaign said the stop was designed to show Nevadans that it was taking their state seriously. “The Nevada caucuses are an important early state test,” said Tim Miller, a Bush spokesman. “Jeb has the best ground game in the state, and as part of that effort we are committed to campaigning aggressively all across Nevada.” But the move also seems intended to keep expectations low in Iowa, where Mr. Bush is unlikely to fare particularly well. (His team’s main goal in the state’s caucuses on Monday is to finish ahead of Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey.) Mr. Bush and his supporters would prefer to keep their focus on New Hampshire, where Mr. Bush needs a strong finish to revive his faltering campaign, and on South Carolina.  His aides believe he is in a four-way race for second place in New Hampshire with the other so-called establishment candidates — Mr. Christie, Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida — and that his national security pitch and support among military veterans can help him win over voters in the state. If he does well in New Hampshire, Mr. Bush believes he is well positioned to leverage that momentum in South Carolina, where Senator Lindsey Graham has already endorsed him and where his brother, former President George W. Bush, could prove an asset. Nonetheless, Mr. Bush still plans to compete in Iowa, maintaining a robust schedule in the final days leading up the caucuses. He has seven events throughout the state on Friday and Saturday, starting in the west and working his way east. And Right to Rise, the “super PAC” supporting him, is also making a concerted effort in Iowa, airing ads attacking Mr. Rubio and recently releasing a mailer hitting Mr. Christie. Mr. Bush is not the only one looking past Iowa. Mr. Christie spent Monday morning in New Hampshire, and Mr. Kasich was also still campaigning there. 