 Updated, 8:52 p.m. | The waning alliance of convenience between Donald J. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas collapsed on Friday in a burst of negative advertisements and counterattacks, as Mr. Trump moved to try to derail Mr. Cruz’s chances of winning the Iowa caucuses in 10 days. The sparring signaled a new and more combative phase in a nomination battle that many Republicans view as rapidly narrowing to a choice between Mr. Cruz and Mr. Trump, who has a substantial lead in the polls over all his rivals in New Hampshire and who in recent days appears to have erased Mr. Cruz’s advantage in Iowa, which will hold the first presidential nominating contest, on Feb. 1. On Friday, Mr. Trump released his first negative ad of the campaign, assailing Mr. Cruz as “pro amnesty” on immigration with a video of Mr. Cruz stammering his way through a Fox interview about his role in failed 2013 legislation. The Trump campaign declined to discuss specifics about future spending on the minute-long ad, including where it would air. But the negative spot — the latest salvo in a $2 million-per-week Trump blitz on the airwaves — suggested a protracted line of attack intended to keep Mr. Cruz on the defensive through the Feb. 20 primary in South Carolina, where Mr. Trump has a substantial lead in the polls. A Republican media buyer said that Mr. Trump’s campaign had switched all of its ad reservations to 60-second spots, suggesting that it would be running the Cruz attack exclusively in the coming days. The shift underscores Mr. Trump’s increasing confidence that he can sweep the first three nominating contests, steamrollering Mr. Cruz and making it prohibitively difficult for other candidates to challenge him. “We will do whatever it takes to win,” said Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager. “We will take every opportunity to outline opponents’ positions to win the nomination.” Mr. Cruz has responded in kind, seeking to undermine Mr. Trump’s credentials as a conservative by highlighting his time as a New York real estate developer and businessman-playboy. The Cruz campaign’s new 30-second spot, also released on Friday, focuses on Mr. Trump’s use of eminent domain to seize an elderly woman’s property to add limousine parking for his Atlantic City casinos. The ad employs footage of Mr. Trump calling eminent domain “wonderful” and tells viewers that the practice is “a fancy term for politicians seizing private property to enrich the fat cats who bankroll them, like Trump.” Responding in a statement, Mr. Trump called Mr. Cruz “a total hypocrite and, until recently, a Canadian citizen who may not even have a legal right to run for president.” Mr. Cruz has endured the most challenging week of his campaign since he rose to the top tier of candidates late last year. His difficulties have been particularly acute in Iowa: On Tuesday, Iowa’s long-serving Republican governor, Terry E. Branstad, publicly called for his defeat, citing Mr. Cruz’s opposition to federal ethanol subsidies for Iowa’s corn industry. On the same day, Mr. Cruz was hit from the right, when Sarah Palin, the party’s 2008 vice-presidential candidate, swooped into Iowa to bestow her endorsement on Mr. Trump. Mr. Cruz and Mr. Trump have been exchanging increasingly personal barbs and backhanded compliments in recent days. “People do not like Ted, to put it mildly,” Mr. Trump told a New Hampshire crowd last weekend. In an interview with ABC’s George Stephanopolous that aired Friday morning, Mr. Cruz described Mr. Trump as “an entertainer and marketer par excellence” who the Washington establishment believed was someone they could “make a deal with.” Yet Mr. Cruz’s campaign has been reluctant until now to attack Mr. Trump more directly on Iowa’s airwaves, fearing that the senator’s positive image among Republican voters could be undermined by the use of harsh ads. Polls of Iowa Republicans indicate that Mr. Cruz is the most popular candidate in the party’s race, and the Texas senator is counting on picking up support from some voters now backing Mr. Trump. The campaign has also been uneasy about the potential effects of targeting an unconventional candidate like Mr. Trump, given his ability to weather the kind of headlines that would badly damage most politicians. Privately, Mr. Cruz’s aides wonder how the public will receive traditional negative commercials against the businessman. “When we’re at the Machine Shed the Sunday before the caucuses,” a senior Cruz aide said, referring to a popular restaurant chain in Iowa, “do you want that lady to approach the table and say, ‘Thank you for giving that Donald Trump hell’ or for her to say, ‘I was so inspired by that last ad, thank you for doing what you are doing, God bless’ ?” The aide commented on the condition of anonymity to speak candidly about campaign strategy. Mr. Trump’s attack ad made it easier for the Cruz campaign to go negative, and Cruz aides argue that the story of the Atlantic City woman losing her home could undercut the real estate mogul’s populist appeal by raising questions about whether he would look out for working-class voters. Moving to highlight those distinctions, Mr. Cruz’s campaign on Friday announced that it had received an endorsement from Gary Bauer, a former head of the Family Research Council, a conservative organization. Mr. Cruz’s attacks echo the criticisms of Republicans who view Mr. Trump as an opportunistic convert to their ideals and as unreliable, a contrast with Mr. Cruz, who is not particularly popular among the party’s leaders and his fellow senators but whose commitment to conservatism is rarely questioned. In recent days, the possibility of having to choose between the two men has provoked extraordinary public soul-searching among Republicans and conservatives. Late Thursday, the venerable conservative magazine National Review published 22 essays by prominent conservatives under the headline “Against Trump.” In an editorial, the magazine pronounced Mr. Trump “a philosophically unmoored opportunist who would trash the broad conservative ideological consensus within the G.O.P.” Less than two hours later, National Review’s publisher, Jack Fowler, posted on the magazine’s website that its invitation to help host a debate in late February had been retracted by the Republican National Committee. Mr. Trump responded on Twitter, telling his 5.7 million followers that National Review was “a failing publication that has lost it’s way. It’s circulation is way down w its influence being at an all time low. Sad!” — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 22, 2016  Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.