 Judge Merrick B. Garland sent senators his responses to a nominee questionnaire on Tuesday as White House officials forged ahead with his stalled nomination to the Supreme Court. Traditionally a prerequisite to a confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee, Judge Garland’s questionnaire serves as a sort of exhaustive curriculum vitae. The committee promptly posted the 141-page document online. Because of Republicans’ continued opposition to considering Judge Garland’s nomination, however, the committee did not provide him with a tailored questionnaire to complete, as is customary for Supreme Court nominees. Instead Judge Garland filled out a standard questionnaire for nominees to lower courts. The document details his awards, speeches, news media interviews and more. His employment history dates to a summer job when he was in his early 20s on the re-election campaign of Representative Abner J. Mikva, an Illinois Democrat who later became chief judge of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit — the post Judge Garland now holds. It also lists his judicial opinions, at one point asking him to enumerate his 10 “most significant” decisions. Among them was his 2015 decision in Cause of Action v. F.T.C., a case in which a conservative legal watchdog group argued that it was entitled to have its Freedom of Information Act request fees waived because its requests were in the public interest; the judges, including Judge Garland, unanimously sided with the group. The questionnaire — which, after naming a nominee and scheduling meetings with senators, seems to be the last bit of the nomination process over which the administration has any control — represents another attempt by White House officials to pressure Republicans to act. The committee’s chairman, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, has maintained that he will hold no hearings on President Obama’s pick. The senator’s spokeswoman did not reply to a request for comment on Tuesday. For Senate Democrats, the questionnaire offered another opportunity to slam Republicans for blocking the Garland nomination — this time with props. Eight Democrats from the judiciary committee gathered in the Capitol on Tuesday and watched as aides stacked six document boxes containing Judge Garland’s questionnaire and more than 2,000 pages of appendices on a draped table. They theatrically popped open the lids, posing for photos with the three-ring binders inside, as they again urged Republicans to move forward. Asked whether Senate Democrats would consider holding a mock hearing for Judge Garland if Republicans continued to withhold the real thing, Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the senior Democrat on the committee, said he hoped it would not come to that. “I think some would probably like us to do some sort of a pretend hearing. That gets them off the hook,” Mr. Leahy said. “But the Senate is not a pretend office.” Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said the questionnaire demonstrate that Judge Garland is “a careful balanced judge who follows the law.” “In fact, he’s never written an opinion that’s been overturned by the Supreme Court,” Mr. Earnest said. Mr. Earnest said that he expected the Senate, after receiving the questionnaire, to give Judge Garland “a fair yes or no vote.” Gardiner Harris contributed reporting.
Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.