 In a private conference call with donors immediately after Thursday night’s Republican debate, Jeb Bush’s team seemed to tacitly acknowledge one of Mr. Bush’s biggest challenges — projecting confidence and strength in the sound-bite culture of televised debates. Sally Bradshaw, a senior Bush adviser, several times stressed that the latest Republican face-off, run by the Fox Business Network, was a contest of “style versus substance.” The implicit message: While Mr. Bush — who struggled in the debate with his delivery and often seemed tentative — may not have won on style, he more than held his own on substance. “So it may be fun and it may be sort of a wrestling match to watch,” Ms. Bradshaw said, according to audio of the call. “There was certainly back and forth between some of the senators on the stage, and between Trump and Cruz, but at the end of the day Jeb remains focused on the issues. You know that’s who Jeb Bush is. It is why you’re supporting him for president.” Ms. Bradshaw said she watched with her son from inside the debate hall in Charleston, S.C., and “belly-laughed” at some of the exchanges between the other candidates.  “They’re great performers,” she said. “But there’s only guy who’s ready to be the president at the end of the day, and I think that’s what people are walking away from this debate with.” Bush aides on the call also highlighted their candidate’s willingness to go after Donald J. Trump — something he has been doing on the campaign trail, and something voters can expect to see more of in the weeks before the early voting begins. In post-debate talking points the campaign distributed to donors and supporters, the first item promoted Mr. Bush’s preparedness to be commander in chief in the wake of the terrorist attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif. “Jeb took on Donald Trump and the back benchers in the Senate once again, and articulated his plan to make America safer, stronger, freer,” the suggested message read. And another talking point in the memo offered a similar theme: “Jeb’s record of accomplishment can’t be matched by the other candidates,” the message read. “No one in this field, from Donald Trump to Ted Cruz to Chris Christie to Marco Rubio, is more prepared to be president on Day 1 than Jeb Bush. “  At the end of the donor call, Heather Larrison, the campaign’s finance director, urged supporters not just to continue to raise money, but also to help on the ground in the early voting states. “We are actively recruiting all of our friends, family, peers, colleagues for the deployment effort,” Ms. Larrison said. “We need boots on the ground in Iowa and New Hampshire and South Carolina, so if you all are willing to go — if you all know friends who are willing to go — we would love to have your help there.”