 Updated, 2:11 p.m. | Gov. Charlie Baker, a Republican with sky-high approval ratings in liberal Massachusetts, has resolutely stayed out of his party’s messy presidential nominating contest. But on Friday, he plans to endorse Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, even as Mr. Christie trails in the polls four days before the New Hampshire primary. Mr. Christie is one of a batch of so-called establishment candidates staking everything on a decent showing in New Hampshire. Mr. Baker’s endorsement appears to be a thank you for the hand that Mr. Christie extended to him during his tight 2014 election against Martha Coakley. Mr. Christie was chairman of the Republican Governors Association at the time and directed $11 million to the Massachusetts governor’s race. And he attended Mr. Baker’s inauguration a year ago. The relationship between the two governors goes back to 2010, when Mr. Christie supported Mr. Baker’s failed gubernatorial bid. In 2011, Mr. Baker made a $10,000 donation to the New Jersey Republican State Committee. And shortly thereafter, New Jersey moved millions of dollars in public money to a firm for which Baker served as a partner. Reports of possible violations of New Jersey’s pay-to-play rules unfolded during Mr. Baker’s competitive race against Ms. Coakley; before the election, Mr. Christie blocked release of records related to an official investigation. After the election, a New Jersey audit cleared Mr. Baker of any wrongdoing. As for Mr. Baker’s endorsement Friday of Mr. Christie, the Massachusetts Democratic Party released a statement trying to link the socially liberal Mr. Baker with some Christie positions that Massachusetts Democrats, who by and large support Mr. Baker, would probably find extreme:  “Just which part of Chris Christie’s campaign platform does Charlie Baker support?” the statement asked. “Defunding Planned Parenthood? Rejecting common-sense gun control? Eliminating the Department of Education? Denying the climate change crisis? Repealing Wall Street reform?”  Snow allowing, Mr. Baker plans to appear at a rally on Saturday with Mr. Christie in New Hampshire and has indicated he would make television appearances for him. 