 Less than two weeks after Islamic State terrorists killed scores of people in Paris and Beirut, fewer than one in four Americans say they think President Obama has a clear plan for combating the terrorist group, according to a new CBS News poll. Sixty-six percent of Americans – including nearly nine in 10 Republicans – say the president has no clear road map for dealing with the group, also known as ISIS or ISIL. These figures are the lowest marks the president has received on handling the terrorist group since CBS News first asked the question in September 2014. At that time, 35 percent said they thought Mr. Obama had a cogent plan for addressing the threat from the group, while 55 percent disagreed. But there is still concern about getting enmeshed in the region: Half of Americans say the United States should not take the lead in the fight against the Islamic State, against 44 percent who say it should. And 83 percent say they are at least somewhat concerned that American intervention in Iraq and Syria will lead to a long and costly engagement. By a wide margin, Americans believe that airstrikes will not be enough to defeat the Islamic State. Sixty-three percent in the poll said ground troops would be necessary, compared to just one in five who said they thought airstrikes would be sufficient. But fewer support sending American soldiers: Fifty percent want the administration to commit ground troops against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, while 42 percent oppose it. That’s a slight uptick from the spring, when just 43 percent supported putting American soldiers on the ground. But it’s not as high as the 57 percent who took this view in February, just after an American aid worker, Kayla Mueller, died in ISIS captivity. The country now disapproves of the president’s approach to fighting terrorism by its widest margin on record, according to the CBS News survey. Just 36 percent approve of the job he’s doing on that front, the lowest number yet on an issue that once earned Mr. Obama his highest approval ratings. Almost seven in 10 Americans now say a terrorist attack in the United States is at least somewhat likely in the coming months. And 14 percent say terrorism is the most important problem facing the country, up from 2 percent earlier this month. Mr. Obama, who has opposed sending ground troops or establishing a no-fly zone above parts of Syria, said Sunday that he understood Americans’ alarm. But he insisted that the administration was pursuing a comprehensive strategy. “The American people are right to be concerned, and to expect that we in the government and in law enforcement are doing everything we can to disrupt terrorist attacks,” he said at a news conference in Malaysia. “We will cut off their financing,” he added, referring to ISIS. “We will hunt down their leadership. We will dismantle their networks and their supply lines, and we will ultimately destroy them.” Americans are sharply split on the question of accepting refugees from Syria, with the divide falling along party lines. Forty-seven percent over all say they think that the United States should accept some migrants after subjecting them to a rigorous screening process, while 50 percent think no Syrian refugees should be admitted, the CBS News poll found. But among Republicans, more than two-thirds oppose accepting any refugees at all, whereas 63 percent of Democrats are in support. The nationwide telephone poll was conducted Nov. 19-22 among 1,205 adults. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points. Giovanni Russonello is a member of The Times’s news surveys department. This is one of an occasional series of posts taking a deeper look at polling during this campaign cycle