 Hillary Clinton heads to Harlem on Wednesday. The presidential campaign has taken Mrs. Clinton from South Carolina to Seattle, from Phoenix to Florida. But this week, after two days of campaigning in Wisconsin, she will come home, or at least to her adopted home, New York, which will hold its primary on April 19. It’s natural that Mrs. Clinton chose Harlem, the neighborhood where Bill Clinton set up his private office after leaving the White House and where both the Clintons enjoy deep support among black elected officials and community leaders. Last month, Mrs. Clinton delivered a speech at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture on Malcolm X Boulevard on “ending systemic racism.” On Wednesday, she will rally voters at the Apollo Theater, the storied venue that has hosted Aretha Franklin, James Brown, Marvin Gaye and other iconic black musicians. At the event last month, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, Mayor Bill de Blasio, Representative Charles B. Rangel and former Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., stood onstage in support of Mrs. Clinton, who served as a senator from New York and who lives in Chappaqua, N.Y. Mrs. Clinton needs to win — and win significantly — in New York to put to rest any suspicion of weakness in her candidacy after several losses to Senator Bernie Sanders in recent caucuses. She maintains a significant lead in the delegates needed to capture the nomination, but should she lose the Wisconsin primary on April 5, Mr. Sanders would have fresh momentum as they both turn their focus to New York. The Sanders campaign is confident about its chances in New York, particularly upstate, where white working class voters have lost jobs, and in liberal pockets like Brooklyn. The Sanders camp is pushing Mrs. Clinton to participate in a New York-based debate ahead of voting in the state. As Mr. Sanders’s campaign manager, Jeff Weaver, wrote to Mrs. Clinton’s campaign manager, Robby Mook, “New York will play a critical role in determining the Democratic nominee.”