 Donald J. Trump is grieving. The billionaire businessman initially struck a magnanimous tone after he came in second to Senator Ted Cruz in the Iowa caucuses on Monday night. But for Mr. Trump, a Republican presidential candidate whose campaign is all about winning, the loss was clearly a blow to his brand. And it hurt. Here’s an examination of Mr. Trump’s five stages of dealing with that defeat. Normally a force on television and social media, Mr. Trump went dark after his loss on Monday night. He avoided the cable news shows the next morning, and his Twitter feed was quiet for more than 15 hours — one of the longest stretches since he announced his campaign in June. When Mr. Trump finally broke his silence, he expressed exasperation at voters for failing to appreciate that he is self-funding his campaign (not exactly true — he has attracted millions in donations). He also could not understand how the news media had failed to grasp that he was always a long shot to win in Iowa, despite his lead in the polls there. Mr. Trump offered congratulations to Mr. Cruz right after the caucuses came to a close, but the graciousness would not last. In a Twitter rant, he assailed the Texas senator for being “too long, rambling, overly flamboyant” in his victory speech. Mr. Trump tried to tar Mr. Cruz as the 2016 version of Howard “The Scream” Dean. “How come the person who comes in third on many of the networks is being covered like it is one of the great victories in the history of politics in this country?” Mr. Trump said. There was much news coverage about the Trump campaign’s organizational reach in Iowa over the last few months. Following his inability to win as many votes as Mr. Cruz, Mr. Trump admitted that more focus should have been put on his ground game. But rather than taking personal responsibility, Mr. Trump said he would have invested more if he knew there was a problem. “I think, in retrospect, we should have had a better ground game,” Mr. Trump said on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe.” “I would have funded a better ground game, but people told me our ground game was fine.” Almost 36 hours after losing in Iowa, Mr. Trump turned to what is usually the first stage of grief: denial. He accused the Cruz campaign of fraud because it had distributed “voter violation” fliers to compel people to caucus and because it had told voters, based on a misinterpreted news item, that Ben Carson was quitting the race. The only fair solution, Mr. Trump said, was to void the results and have a new election.