 The second-to-last Republican presidential debate before voting begins in Iowa was a fistfight, one that seemed to further clarify the contours of the race as it has winnowed in the remaining weeks. Of the seven candidates onstage, the sharpest fights were between Donald J. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas. Mr. Cruz came armed with a plan to get in Mr. Trump’s head after the billionaire businessman spent nearly two weeks discussing whether Mr. Cruz, who was born in Canada but whose mother was a United States citizen, was eligible to be president. Mr. Cruz suggested that by an extension of that logic, it could also be an issue for Mr. Trump, whose mother was born in Scotland. Mr. Trump quickly pointed out that he himself was born in the United States — but he was plainly on the defensive. But Mr. Trump recovered as the debate went on. He said he welcomed carrying the “mantle of anger” for voters who are mistrustful of their government.  His best moment of the debate, and one of the best over all, was when in response to Mr. Cruz branding him with “New York values” spoke of the city’s spirit after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. The  “smell of death” hung over the World Trade Center site, Mr. Trump said, in a rare moment of eloquence. Mr. Cruz stood silently, and even applauded, as Mr. Trump spoke. The fight cemented their status as leading candidates for the nomination. Mr. Cruz also filibustered through a question from the moderators about his $1 million in loans from Goldman Sachs and Citibank, painting himself as under attack by the mainstream news media. Jeb Bush had one of his stronger debate performances, but it took him a while to warm up. He tried hard to fight Mr. Trump for the soul of the Republican Party over his proposal to bar Muslims from entering the country. But Senator Marco Rubio of Florida overtook that battle when he fought with Mr. Cruz about immigration overhaul, in an exchange in which both men scored points. Mr. Rubio, armed with a thick opposition research file on Mr. Cruz’s votes and statements, unloaded them one by one. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey also had a strong night, particularly at the beginning, when he swung aggressively at Mr. Rubio. But Mr. Christie repeatedly misstated his record, particularly on gun control, and those claims could come back to haunt him.  The presence of Ben Carson and Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio was barely felt, to the point that Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon, joked that he had to be woken up when the questions moved his way.  