 The $1 trillion spending bill that passed through Congress with bipartisan support on Friday has been hailed by Republican and Democratic leaders as a rare example of the parties coming together to get things done. But for Republican presidential candidates who are sticking to the outsider script of Washington being broken, there was little to celebrate. Such bargains, they said, are why a Republican is needed in the White House. “If anyone needed more evidence of why the American people are suffering at the hands of their own government, look no further than the budget deal announced by Speaker Ryan,” said Donald J. Trump, who is leading most polls for the Republican nomination. “The American people will have to absorb higher deficits, greater debt, less economic liberty and more corporate welfare.” Mr. Trump argued that the budget deal is another example of corporate special interests ruling Washington and said that the next president needs to be someone who will hold Congress accountable for runaway spending. Three of the Republican senators who are running for president also did their best to distance themselves from the bill. “This is Mitch McConnell and Paul Ryan passing the Democrat agenda, funding Obamacare, funding amnesty, expanding low-skilled immigration so we’re driving down wages, we’re costing people jobs,” Senator Ted Cruz of Texas said on Laura Ingraham’s radio program. “It’s an absolute betrayal. It’s why people are furious and frustrated.” Congressional leaders vowed to avert another government shutdown over a budget battle. But for lawmakers like Mr. Cruz, such a deal represents caving to President Obama. Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky criticized the bill for doing nothing to stop Syrian refugees from entering the country and for expanding the government’s surveillance capabilities. “I cannot and will not support any legislation that adds debt on top of debt and enables President Obama’s lawlessness,” Mr. Paul said. The spending legislation put Senator Marco Rubio in an awkward position, because the Florida Republican said on Thursday that he would do whatever he could to slow down and amend it. But he failed to take action to block a series of fast-track votes because he was campaigning in Iowa. Mr. Rubio’s campaign said on Friday that flawed process surrounding the spending bill, which was crafted behind closed doors and offered lawmakers little time to review, was precisely why he is running for president. “Marco has consistently voted against those sorts of bills, but the truth is that it’s not going to change until we elect a new president,” said Alex Conant, a spokesman for Mr. Rubio. “That’s why Marco is meeting voters in Iowa today.”