 New Jersey has backed Democrats in every presidential election since 1992, but a new poll released on Tuesday shows that the state would be in play in a matchup between Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump — as long as Gov. Chris Christie is not on his ticket. A poll from Monmouth University found that 38 percent of registered voters support Mrs. Clinton and 34 percent back Mr. Trump. The survey, which had a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points, found that the remaining voters would either back a third-party candidate or that they remain undecided. “Blue Jersey doesn’t appear quite so blue at this stage of the campaign, but we should keep in mind that neither major party candidate has fully locked in the support of their partisan bases,” said Patrick Murray, director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute. When that happens, Mr. Murray suggested, it could benefit Mrs. Clinton because there are more Democrats than Republicans in New Jersey. Another thing that would help Mrs. Clinton is if Mr. Trump tapped Mr. Christie as his running mate. The New Jersey governor became one of Mr. Trump’s most vocal supporters after dropping his own presidential bid, but his campaign and the time he spent away from the state took a toll on his popularity there. More than 40 percent of New Jersey voters said that they would be less likely to support Mr. Trump if Mr. Christie was on the ticket, while 8 percent said that they would be more likely to back the presumptive Republican nominee with their governor at his side. Mr. Christie would also be unhelpful when it comes to wooing undecided voters, as 51 percent of those who have yet to make up their minds said that he would be a turnoff. “Trump claims he can turn New Jersey competitive in November,” Mr. Murray said. “These results suggest he probably needs to look elsewhere for a running mate if he wants to make that a reality.” As for adding a local lawmaker to Mrs. Clinton’s ticket, the poll found that Senator Cory Booker would neither harm nor help her chances. Two-thirds of New Jersey voters said that Mr. Booker would have no influence their thinking and only 18 percent said he would be a bonus. New Jersey voters did suggest that they are open to thinking outside of the box in this election, with 11 percent of them saying that they would like to vote for an independent or third-party candidate rather than decide between Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton. Gary Johnson, the Libertarian Party’s nominee, and Jill Stein, a Green Party candidate, won 5 percent and 4 percent of the vote when added to the mix. Their presence on the ballot appeared to offer a small benefit to Mrs. Clinton by siphoning some support away from Mr. Trump.