 Representative Alan Grayson, a Florida Democrat who is under investigation by the House ethics committee over allegations that he used his office to promote a private hedge fund he was running as a side business, caused a scene at the Capitol on Wednesday by confronting the Senate Democratic leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, who had urged Mr. Grayson to drop his bid for Florida’s open Senate seat.  After the accusations against Mr. Grayson surfaced in February, Mr. Reid issued a statement saying that “Grayson claims to be a progressive, but it seems like he has no moral compass.” Mr. Reid had added: “He should drop out of the Senate race immediately. His actions aren’t just disgraceful to the Democratic Party, they disgrace the halls of Congress.” On Wednesday, Mr. Reid was on the House side of the Capitol to speak to the Congressional Progressive Caucus, and according to lawmakers and aides present, Mr. Grayson, 58, confronted the 76-year-old senator, who is retiring after this year. Called on for a question, Mr. Grayson asked Mr. Reid if he knew who he was and then repeatedly demanded that Mr. Reid say his name.  Mr. Grayson then read aloud Mr. Reid’s statement from February calling on him to drop out of the Florida Senate race, and insisted that the allegations were “not true.”  As colleagues, including Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota, a co-chairman of the Progressive Caucus, urged Mr. Grayson to back off, Mr. Reid, unruffled, replied curtly: “I want you to lose. It is true.”  Mr. Grayson said after the encounter: “Calling out the establishment is never easy, and it’s not always polite. I had a rare moment to challenge the lies that Senator Reid has spread about me, and Senator Reid made it clear that he’s too heavily invested in the Republican sock puppet he’s calling a Democratic Senate candidate to consider the truth of the matter. Senator Reid ought to learn that ‘I want you to lose’ is no excuse.” A statement from Mr. Reid’s office afterward said: “Alan Grayson decided to be disruptive, to the embarrassment of his fellow colleagues. Senator Reid took the opportunity to express his low opinion of Congressman Grayson to his face.” The remarkably frank statement from Mr. Reid’s office said that the allegations against Mr. Grayson had been corroborated “by 74 pages’ worth of evidence from the Congressional Ethics Committee.”  The investigation is continuing.