 The day after a bomb ripped through a federal building in Oklahoma City in 1995, killing 168 people and injuring hundreds more, Oklahoma’s junior senator — a Republican just five months into his first term — visited the wreckage. “If it can happen here, it can happen anywhere in America,” Senator James Inhofe said as he stood near the blast site. Merrick B. Garland, a Justice Department official preparing to prosecute the culprits of what was then the worst domestic terror attack in United States history, visited shortly after, as bodies were still being recovered. It was the beginning of what would become a defining moment in his legal career. On Wednesday, almost 21 years to the day since those grim trips to Oklahoma City, their paths crossed again as Judge Garland, now chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, sat down with Mr. Inhofe and Senator James Lankford, Oklahoma’s current senators, to discuss his Supreme Court nomination. While White House officials had certainly hoped that the meeting could highlight the pinnacle of Judge Garland’s time in the public eye, Mr. Inhofe and Mr. Lankford made it clear that they opposed his nomination to replace Justice Antonin Scalia, who died in February. “The Senate’s constitutional role of ‘advice and consent’ includes the ability to choose the right time and determine if the nominee is the right person,” they said in a statement. “Well before the president nominated Judge Garland, the majority of the members of the Senate determined that a presidential election year is not the right time to start a nomination process for the Supreme Court.” In an unusual joint meeting that lasted almost 55 minutes, Mr. Inhofe and Mr. Lankford said they thanked Judge Garland for what he did for their state during a painful time. “During our time with Judge Garland, we extended Oklahoma’s gratitude for the many weeks he spent in our state working for justice for those who lost loved ones from the Oklahoma City bombing,” they said. Senate Democrats seized on last week’s anniversary of the Oklahoma City bombing to draw attention to Judge Garland’s stalled nomination, even holding a news conference on the Supreme Court steps with two of his fellow prosecutors. Mr. Lankford, who lives near Oklahoma City, criticized them for politicizing the tragedy. Mr. Inhofe said he was one of the first senators Judge Garland called after President Obama announced his nomination. “I think a lot of him, so, of course, I took his call. He said, would I meet with him?” Mr. Inhofe said in an interview. “I said, yeah, but you have to understand, there is absolutely no scenario by which I would participate in a confirmation. And he said, that’s fine.” Mr. Inhofe does not shy away from the fact that he was one of seven current Republican senators who voted to confirm Judge Garland to the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia in 1997. And 23 Republicans voted against him then, he added Wednesday. But he said the fact that it was a presidential election year outweighed the factors that had once prompted him to support Judge Garland. “This is the United States Supreme Court, and this would be breaking a 139-year precedent, and I don’t think it’s a good idea to do that,” Mr. Inhofe said.
Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.