 LAMONI, Iowa — Senator Ted Cruz, responding to a critical ad from allies of Senator Marco Rubio of about his national security record, said on Saturday that his rival’s campaign was clearly “very, very dismayed” about the direction of the race and the fact that conservatives “are uniting around our campaign.” Speaking to reporters before a meet-and-greet at a high school here, Mr. Cruz addressed a television ad, paid for by American Encore, a nonprofit group with ties to Mr. Rubio, that condemned his support for the USA Freedom Act, which limited the federal government’s bulk collection of phone metadata. “I imagine Senator Rubio’s PAC is trying to respond to the criticism that he has received that he is not willing to protect the Fourth Amendment privacy rights of law-abiding citizens,” Mr. Cruz said. In perhaps his most sustained attack to date against Mr. Rubio, whom he has tried to portray as overly cozy with establishment Republicans, Mr. Cruz spent several minutes assailing the congressional colleague he has called a friend. He pivoted quickly to a criticism of Mr. Rubio’s past work on a bipartisan immigration bill that included a pathway to citizenship, which has become a chief vulnerability for Mr. Rubio among many conservative voters.  “Senator Rubio’s campaign has been desperate to change the topic from his longtime partnership with and collaboration with President Obama and Chuck Schumer in pushing a massive amnesty bill,” Mr. Cruz said.  He was asked if Mr. Rubio appeared to be coordinating with the group running the ad, which Mr. Cruz repeatedly called a “PAC” but which is in fact a nonprofit run by a Rubio ally. Mr. Cruz suggested that Mr. Rubio had set the tone for the ad with his own words. “None of this is rocket science,” Mr. Cruz said, adding, “He makes this bogus attack and within days, magically, this super PAC echoes the exact same attack Senator Rubio is making.” He continued, “Senator Rubio chose to make these attacks on national television. He knows they’re false.” Mr. Rubio’s campaign did not respond to a message Saturday evening, though a top adviser, Jim Merrill, addressed Mr. Cruz’s words on Twitter. “Very, very dismayed?” Mr. Merrill wrote. “I don’t think so #phonytedcruz.” The president of American Encore, Sean Noble, said in a statement on Sunday that “Once again, Sen. Ted Cruz is trying to change the subject because he can’t explain his vote to weaken national security.” Earlier on Saturday, the Rubio campaign again drew attention to the controversial intelligence-gathering laws at issue in the dispute, but he did not call out Mr. Cruz by name. “As the recent terrorist attacks in Paris have shown, now is the worst possible time to undermine the very tools that keep our people safe,” Mr. Rubio said. Jonathan Martin contributed reporting from Newton, Iowa.