 Here’s how we covered the Republican debate. GREENVILLE, S.C. — The remaining six Republicans met here Saturday evening for another primary debate. The men on the stage represented a newly winnowed Republican field ahead of South Carolina’s primary on Feb. 20. Here are the highlights: • The first question was about Justice Antonin Scalia, who died hours before the debate. Donald J. Trump was unequivocal: He expects President Obama to nominate a new justice, he said, and it’s up to “Mitch and the entire group” (that would be Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader) to “delay, delay, delay.” Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio struck a more moderate tone, but similarly said that “the president should not move forward.” • Jeb Bush struck a different tone on Justice Scalia’s death, explicitly saying he believed that Mr. Obama has the right to appoint a justice — “I’m an Article II guy,” he said, citing the executive branch section of the Constitution — but that in return, the president should choose a “consensus” candidate. • Senator Marco Rubio of Florida was asked to point to where he had been tested in a crisis — an area that is perceived as a key weakness. But Mr. Rubio steered his response toward a key strength: foreign policy. He cited his decision not to authorize the president’s request to use force in Syria, saying Mr. Obama’s plan would have made the situation worse. • Mr. Bush and Mr. Trump had a heated exchange during a discussion of foreign policy. But the tenor was more personal than policy. When Mr. Bush questioned Mr. Trump’s foreign policy judgment, the real estate billionaire responded, “Jeb is absolutely so wrong.” As the crowd booed, Mr. Trump retorted, “That’s Jeb’s special interests and lobbyists talking.” Moments later, Mr. Bush mocked Mr. Trump as getting his foreign policy from “the shows” — and he countered by pointing to the money Mr. Bush poured into New Hampshire, to finish fourth. • Mr. Bush got an assist from Mr. Rubio in defending the handling of the Sept. 11 attacks by Mr. Bush’s brother, former President George W. Bush. While Mr. Trump, Jeb Bush said, “was building a reality TV show, my brother was building a security apparatus to keep us safe.” And when Mr. Trump criticized the 43rd president for allowing Sept. 11 to happen on his watch, Mr. Rubio chimed in. “I thank God all the time that it was George W. Bush in the White House and not Al Gore,” he said. “He kept us safe, and I am forever grateful.” • A section on taxes and entitlements featured less interaction, with the candidates instead defending their plans. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas said his business flat tax would allow people to fill out their taxes on a postcard and “abolish the IRS.” Mr. Rubio touted a child tax credit, “so that parents who are working get to keep more of their own money.” • Mr. Kasich defended the expansion of Medicaid in his state. The only real challenge came from Mr. Bush, who sought to put the Ohio governor on the defensive for expanding a portion of the president’s health care law, which, he said, should be repealed and replaced. • The debate grew heated over immigration. Mr. Cruz tied Mr. Rubio to what he called an “amnesty plan,” and Mr. Rubio retorted by citing some of Mr. Cruz’s openness to immigration, like increasing the number of green cards. Mr. Cruz, he said, can’t be trusted — he was either lying then or lying now. And Mr. Trump said Mr. Bush, who had once called immigration an “act of love,” was the “weakest person” on the issue. By the end, one candidate — Mr. Cruz — had even spoken a few words of Spanish. To taunt Mr. Rubio, of course. • Things turned nasty — and slightly out of control — when Mr. Cruz accused Mr. Trump of supporting taxpayer funding for Planned Parenthood. “You are the single biggest liar,” Mr. Trump said. “This guy will say anything. Nasty guy.” Mr. Trump did say he thought Planned Parenthood did “wonderful things” for women’s health, excepting abortions. But the exchange also featured Mr. Trump shouting, “Why do you lie? Why do you lie?” And Mr. Cruz chiding him that “adults learn not to interrupt.”