 MIAMI — Hillary Clinton is winning in the race for delegates, but last month Bernie Sanders beat her in the sprint for cash. The Clinton campaign said Wednesday that it raised $30 million for her primary campaign in February, compared to the more than $42 million Mr. Sanders said he raised in the same period. Mrs. Clinton raised an additional $4.4 million for the Democratic National Committee and state parties in January and ended February with $31 million on hand to be used in the coming contests against Mr. Sanders. On Wednesday night, the Clinton campaign has a fund-raiser in New York City featuring an Elton John and Katy Perry concert that will strictly raise money for the primaries. But Mrs. Clinton’s string of victories on Tuesday put her ahead of Mr. Sanders where it matters. “By virtue of Secretary Clinton’s eight wins on ‘Super Tuesday’ — most of which were by significant margins — we now have a lead of more than 180 pledged delegates over Senator Sanders,” the campaign manager, Robby Mook, wrote in a memo on Wednesday, including his candidate’s victory in American Samoa, along with the seven states, in the Tuesday win total. “This lead is larger than any lead Senator Obama had at any point in the 2008 primary.” The Sanders camp vowed to continue to fight and noted his victories Tuesday in Colorado, Oklahoma, Vermont and Minnesota as evidence that “the political revolution has begun.”  But the political revolution has not come cheap, and despite its small-dollar fund-raising prowess, the Sanders campaign has spent more cash than Mrs. Clinton. His campaign did not disclose its cash on hand, but Federal Election Commission disclosures filed this month showed that at the end of January, Mr. Sanders had $15 million cash on hand, less than half what Mrs. Clinton had. On Wednesday, the Clinton campaign said it had $31 million cash on hand to use in the primary. “We anticipate building on this lead even further, making it increasingly difficult and eventually mathematically impossible for Senator Sanders to catch up,” Mr. Mook wrote. With Mrs. Clinton’s path to the nomination clearer, donors have grown antsy for the campaign to begin raising money to be used on the general election. So far, the campaign has raised only $3 million to use in the general election through the end of January, compared to $128 million in primary money. But Mrs. Clinton’s aides are conscious of not appearing to take the nominating contest for granted or counting out Mr. Sanders, who has proved to be an unexpectedly strong opponent, and whose legions of supporters — including those who pitch in $5 and $10 donations online — she would need in a general election.