 
Updated, 5:02 p.m. | 
Donald J. Trump has backed out of appearing at a gathering of the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce next week, and the group said it was because he did not want to be confronted with questions.  “Trump’s decision to forfeit the Q.-and-A. session was motivated by the concern of being ‘put on trial,'” the chamber said in a statement. “Withdrawing from the Q.-and-A. can only suggest that Trump himself believes his views are indefensible before a Hispanic audience.” The chamber said this week that Mr. Trump would participate in a question-and-answer session at its conference in Washington next week. The gathering was expected to be contentious because of inflammatory remarks that the Republican presidential candidate has made about illegal immigrants since starting his campaign.  Mr. Trump did have a positive meeting last month with Javier Palomarez, the president of the chamber, suggesting that Mr. Trump was trying to curry favor with Hispanics in spite of his proposal to build a wall along the Mexican border and deport anyone who is in the United States illegally. In an interview on Fox in September, Mr. Trump indicated that he was planning to attend the forum and acknowledged that it could be unfriendly. “That won’t be that easy of a meeting because you’ll have hundreds of people and they will have constituents of his and they may disagree with me, but ultimately we will all get along,” Mr. Trump said, referring to Mr. Palomarez. However, Mr. Trump said on Friday that he would definitely not be attending because of negative comments Mr. Palomarez made about him. In an interview with Politico this week, Mr. Palomarez said that he did not take “great comfort” in meeting with Mr. Trump.  “He said things to the press that were wrong and not correct, so we decided not to do it,” Mr. Trump said in an interview, referring to the forum. “We will be in Las Vegas at a sold-out, great event.” Mr. Trump said he had only told the chamber that he would consider attending its gathering but had not committed to participating. He also said that he was put off by Mr. Palomarez’s asking him to join the group and pay a fee of $25,000 to $2 million, and that the organization was using him for publicity.  “He wanted me there because he’ll sell a lot of tickets,” Mr. Trump said. The confusion was the latest instance of tension between Hispanics and Mr. Trump, who offended some when he said that Mexico was sending criminal and rapists into the United States.  “With an 84 percent disapproval rating among Hispanics, Trump’s decision to withdraw from the session only deepens our community’s already negative perceptions of him,” said Ammar Campa-Najjar, a spokesman for the chamber. Mr. Trump rejected the idea that he had a bad relationship with Hispanics, noting that he employs thousands of them and vowed to win their vote in a general election. “The Hispanics that are here legally, they love Trump,” he said. “I think I’m going to do great with Hispanics.”   