 The head of a consulting firm founded by one of Bill Clinton’s closest aides pushed back against allegations by Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who is chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, that the firm had undue influence on Hillary Rodham Clinton’s diplomatic work. In a letter to the committee in October, Declan Kelly, the Irish-born chief executive of the firm, Teneo, responded to questions about an agreement that permitted Huma Abedin, one of Mrs. Clinton’s closest aides and the vice chairwoman of her campaign, to receive income both from her position at the State Department and as a consultant to Teneo.  In the letter, Mr. Kelly referred the committee to the State Department, which is conducting its own review of her work status. That inquiry is not related to Teneo’s work. “Out of respect for the independence and integrity of that review, I respectfully refer your office to them for any other questions you may have,” wrote Mr. Kelly, who was a major donor to Mrs. Clinton in her 2008 campaign and went on to serve as special envoy to Northern Ireland when she was secretary of state. He said Teneo’s work in Washington was an “insignificant” part of its business and that prior to Ms. Abedin’s hiring it had required her to sign an independent contract agreement that she would avoid any work that could potentially pose a conflict with her role at the State Department. “We have no reason to believe any of her activities as an independent contractor were inconsistent with the commitments she made in this regard,” Mr. Kelly wrote in the Oct. 23 letter, which The New York Times was briefed on after portions of it were reported on Friday by Reuters. “Teneo,” Mr. Kelly added, “has already provided considerable information and records, including Ms. Abedin’s contract with Teneo.” The State Department had granted Ms. Abedin permission to take on the arrangement, which became public more than two years ago and quickly prompted concerns about conflicts of interest. Questions about the arrangement have only intensified amid Mrs. Clinton’s presidential campaign and the release by the State Department in recent months of a trove of emails from Mrs. Clinton and Ms. Abedin.  Teneo, a privately owned firm that was partly founded by Douglas J. Band, formerly Mr. Clinton’s closest aide, has in recent years grown from a Manhattan-based consultancy to a sprawling consort with 525 employees and 14 offices around the world offering investor relations, merchant banking and strategic business advice. The firm has been embroiled in unwanted publicity before. MF Global, the international brokerage firm led by Jon S. Corzine, the former governor of New Jersey, that collapsed over bad investments, had used Teneo’s services. Mr. Clinton stepped down as a paid adviser in 2012.