 Donald J. Trump unleashed a torrent of criticism at the publisher of an influential New Hampshire newspaper on Monday and at the paper’s preferred candidate, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey. The double-barreled attack came after the publisher, Joseph W. McQuaid of The Union Leader, wrote an editorial comparing Mr. Trump to “Biff,” the egomaniacal entrepreneur in the “Back to the Future” movies. Mr. Trump responded by giving an interview to WMUR, a local television station with a deep rivalry with The Union Leader, in which he called Mr. McQuaid “a real lowlife” who had repeatedly asked him for personal favors.  Mr. Trump, whose campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, has lived in New Hampshire for much of his life, is leading all public opinion polls in the state. But there is more aggressive competition in New Hampshire than there is in Iowa. “He called me practically begging to do the debate,” Mr. Trump said of Mr. McQuaid, referring to a candidate forum that the newspaper co-hosted in August. The forum, Mr. Trump said, was “a farce and a joke.” “I was the only one that didn’t do the debate, and I think I should get credit for vision,” Mr. Trump said. He also praised William Loeb, the newspaper’s previous publisher, who died in 1981. Among the things that Mr. McQuaid asked him for, Mr. Trump said, were advertising in the paper, a donation to charity and a lunch at a country club for the two of them. “I never thought he’d stoop to these levels where he’d do an editorial after everything he asked me to do,” said Mr. Trump, who added that he believed it was done in part to help Mr. Christie, who has staked his presidential fortunes on doing well in New Hampshire. “Joe McQuaid’s just his puppet,” Mr. Trump said. In an interview, Mr. McQuaid said he was simply “very upset I wasn’t called a loser.” He read two notes that Mr. Trump sent him, one before and one immediately after the paper’s candidate forum in August. Mr. Trump said in the first letter that he had “made a great fortune based on instinct” and had decided not to attend. Immediately after the forum, where Jeb Bush’s performance was largely panned, Mr. Trump wrote about those reviews and insisted, “I got great credit for not coming.” He added, “People called it ‘insight and vision.’” Still, Mr. Trump wrote, “I hope this, along with many other of my correct decisions, will lead you (a man I have great respect for) and the Union Leader to endorse me at the appropriate time.” Mr. McQuaid also said that the lunch they had was at Mr. Trump’s suggestion, through an email from his secretary, and that the “country club” was actually the municipal golf course in Manchester. “The man lies like a rug,” Mr. McQuaid said, adding that “no one asked him” to take out ads in the paper, which were for one of the Trump golf courses. The charity to which he wrote a check was related to James Foley, the journalist kidnapped and beheaded by the Islamic State. Mr. Trump, however, insisted that the paper made a poor decision in backing Mr. Christie. “It’s ridiculous to back Chris,” Mr. Trump said, unleashing a kitchen-sink tirade against Mr. Christie, citing the tax rates in New Jersey and its nine credit downgrades during the governor’s tenure. But he saved his most aggressive comments for the scandal over the George Washington Bridge, where appointees of Mr. Christie closed down access lanes from Fort Lee, N.J., to the toll plaza of the George Washington Bridge for several days. Fort Lee’s mayor had indicated that he would not endorse Mr. Christie’s 2013 re-election. Mr. Christie has said he had no knowledge of what the aides were doing, and he fired them. Both have been indicted by federal prosecutors. “It’s impossible to believe he didn’t know about it,” Mr. Trump said. “Everybody knows he knew about it,” he added, noting that the two were facing “criminal trial.” A spokeswoman for Mr. Christie did not respond to an email seeking comment.  Mr. Trump also criticized Mr. Christie for an episode that left Republicans cold at the end of the 2012 campaign, when he embraced President Obama in New Jersey days before the November presidential election and days after Hurricane Sandy ravaged parts of the state. “He was so warm and so happy to have Barack Obama in the state of New Jersey that I personally think it could have cost” Mitt Romney, the Republican nominee, the election, Mr. Trump said. “I actually thought that Christie was going to vote for Obama based on that little episode.”