 GILBERT, S.C. — The political world was still shaking with the news that Donald J. Trump would sit out the next debate, but on Wednesday night the candidate himself, full of self-flattery and short on time, barely mentioned it. Instead, he took his campaign back to the basics: walls, polls, trade deals and his own “tremendous” business success. Speaking inside the barn at a tree farm here outside the South Carolina capital, Mr. Trump gave only a glancing nod to his dispute with Fox News and its anchor Megyn Kelly, with whom he has been publicly feuding for months. “You know, I was not treated fairly,” Mr. Trump said, recycling a line he has deployed repeatedly, before trailing off. He then seemed to draw a parallel between his standoff with Fox News and the Iran nuclear deal, suggesting that American negotiators would have produced a better deal had they “just walked away.” Throughout the night, Iowa, which votes on Monday, served as little more than prologue for Mr. Trump, who promised attendees that he would be spending so much time in South Carolina in coming weeks that “you’re going to say, ‘Get the hell out of here Trump, we can’t stand you!’ ” Mr. Trump did draw attention to a fund-raiser he will hold in Des Moines for wounded veterans on Thursday, at the same time his fellow Republicans debate across town, but left it at that. Aside from those brief allusions, the night was a largely self-laudatory one for Mr. Trump, who has a comfortable lead in polls here and picked up a key endorsement. He attacked his chief Republican competitor in Iowa, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, calling attention to Mr. Cruz’s birthplace and undeclared 2012 campaign loans, and criticized the Democratic field as weak. “Ted Cruz was born in a place called Canada,” said Mr. Trump, who has questioned whether Mr. Cruz meets the Constitution’s requirement that the president be a “natural born citizen.”  “It’s a big problem,” Mr. Trump said. The trip yielded at least one clear victory for Mr. Trump: the endorsement by the state’s lieutenant governor, Henry McMaster, who praised the reality television star as “a man of accomplishment” during his introduction. Mr. McMaster, a former chairman of the South Carolina G.O.P. and a fixture in Republican politics here, provided the latest in a run of high-profile endorsements announced by the campaign ahead of the official start of primary voting. The endorsement seemed to catch many in the crowd of several hundred who made it into the barn — thousands more waited outside — by surprise. Mr. McMaster is a close ally of the state’s governor, Nikki Haley, who caused a stir this month when she used the Republican response to President Obama’s State of the Union address to unleash a thinly veiled attack on Mr. Trump. South Carolina holds the nation’s third Republican nominating contest, on Feb. 20. Those who turned out to see Mr. Trump, despite a January chill and long lines, said the candidate’s ultimate decision on Thursday’s debate made little difference to them. “It doesn’t matter to me one way or another,” said Kimberly Thomas of nearby Lexington, S.C., referencing Ms. Kelly and Mr. Trump. “She’s doing her job and I respect her. And he’s doing what he wants to do.” Ms. Thomas, 49, said she might have liked Mr. Trump to handle his withdrawal from the debate differently, but she still plans to vote for him in the primary. Dennis Hammond, of Pelion, S.C., said he had yet to decide for whom he would vote, but saw no big loss in Mr. Trump sitting out the debate. “Aren’t they all saying the same thing over and over again?” Mr. Hammond, 59, said. “It doesn’t matter if he’s on a stage or in the debate. They aren’t answering the questions.”