 The billionaire Koch brothers have long been power brokers within the Republican Party, using their wealth to steer candidates and their policies. But this election season is turning out to be a different story, with a billionaire celebrity and a firebrand senator from Texas taking the political debate in directions that Charles G. Koch finds worrisome. In an interview with The Financial Times, Mr. Koch bemoaned the state of the field of Republican candidates seeking the nomination and suggested that big money was losing its influence in politics these days. His concern over the policies of Donald J. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas was especially clear. “It is hard for me to get a high level of enthusiasm because the things I’m passionate about, and I think this country urgently needs, aren’t being addressed,” said Mr. Koch, 80, the chairman of Koch Industries. Asked about Mr. Trump’s plan to bar foreign Muslims from entering the United States, Mr. Koch said that such a policy was antithetical to what America represents. “Well, then you destroy our free society,” Mr. Koch said. “Who is it that said, ‘If you want to defend your liberty, the first thing you’ve got to do is defend the liberty of people you like the least?’” Mr. Koch also said that Mr. Cruz’s plan to “carpet bomb” the Islamic State militants would be fruitless, wondering if the next step would be to go country to country bombing Muslims. “I’ve studied revolutionaries a lot,” Mr. Koch said. “Mao said that the people are the sea in which the revolutionary swims. Not that we don’t need to defend ourselves and have better intelligence and all that, but how do we create an unfriendly sea for the terrorists in the Muslim communities? We haven’t done a good job of that.” Last year, the Koch brothers signaled that their network of political nonprofits, “super PACs” and like-minded donors would spend almost $900 million advancing conservative candidates and policies through the 2016 election. Mr. Trump, who is mostly self-financing his campaign, has mocked their influence and called those who take their money “puppets.” But Mr. Koch does not seem to feel like much of a puppet master. He told The Financial Times that “it doesn’t seem to faze them much” when he and fellow donors have presented candidates with a list of important issues to focus on. The return on investment of political spending might not be what it once was. “I’m not confident,” Mr. Koch said. “I’d say there are some benefits. Ask me in 10 years.”