 INDIANAPOLIS — Bernie Sanders capped off a day of campaigning around Indiana on Monday with a boisterous and energetic rally in downtown Indianapolis. Mr. Sanders’s voice sounded particularly hoarse as he railed against income inequality, with many of his supporters reciting parts of his now familiar speech along with him. The rally was one of three he held in Indiana on Monday to court the state’s voters, who go to the polls on Tuesday, and stress the state’s importance in his push to win the Democratic presidential nomination.  Although the chances have narrowed for the Vermont senator, his supporters were as lively as ever on Monday night, shouting his name and waving signs throughout his speech. “Our ideas are the future of America,” Mr. Sanders said to loud cheers. “Our ideas are the future of the Democratic Party.” A victory in Indiana, where polls show that Mr. Sanders and Hillary Clinton are in a tight race, could help him regain some momentum after tough losses last week on the East Coast. On Monday, Mr. Sanders repeatedly told supporters that he was counting on them to add to his victories.  “Tomorrow let us see Indiana have the largest voter turnout in its history,” Mr. Sanders said at his Indianapolis event. “Tomorrow let us see Indiana help lead this country into the political revolution.” In Evansville earlier on Monday, Mr. Sanders emphasized that he needed big wins to clinch the nomination. He also said the election system disadvantages “insurgent candidates” like himself, lamenting that he has been able to get only a small fraction of superdelegates to support him. “As of today, in what I call earned delegates, the delegates that you earn after a primary or a caucus, we have won about 45 percent of them,” Mr. Sanders said of pledged delegates. “There are 10 states left and we have to earn over 50 percent of those delegates and that’s what the importance of Indiana is. And we are going to fight as hard as we can for every vote.” The senator also made his pitch at Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne as well, casting his platform as crucial to achieving health care for all Americans, combating climate change and reforming the campaign finance system.  “Together we are going to change our national priorities,” he said.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.