 Most Americans say the Senate should vote on whether to confirm Judge Merrick B. Garland to the Supreme Court, with the large majority of the public viewing Republican leaders’ refusal to do so as politically motivated, the latest CBS News/New York Times poll shows.  Fifty-three percent say the Senate should hold a vote on President Obama’s nominee, while 42 percent  say the Senate should wait until next year for the new president to nominate someone. The poll finds views sharply divided by party, with three-quarters of Democrats wanting a vote on Judge Garland and two-thirds of Republicans opposed. Independents are closely divided. A wide majority of Americans, moreover – more than seven in 10 – think Senate Republican leaders are refusing to hold hearings mostly for political reasons rather than because they think delay is best for the country. That view is shared by nine in 10 Democrats, three-quarters of independents and even a slim majority of Republicans. The poll finds that the issue of which judge sits on the Supreme Court is a consequential one to most Americans, with 68 percent saying it is at least very important to them. That includes 37 percent who call it extremely important; in 2005, fewer – 22 percent – said so. Majorities of very liberal and very conservative Americans say it is extremely important to them (54 percent and 55 percent, respectively). Republicans are more apt than Democrats or independents to say so.      Yet, not surprisingly, few have formed an opinion of Judge Garland, who was nominated less than a week ago and is on the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Twenty-one percent express a favorable view of him, while 7 percent have an unfavorable view and the rest have no opinion yet. Among those who have been following news about the appointment very closely, 40 percent have a positive view of him, compared with 15 percent negative.  The nationwide telephone poll was conducted March 17-20 on cellphones and landlines with 1,252 adults and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.  This is one of an occasional series of posts taking a deeper look at polling during this campaign cycle.