 Hillary Clinton met with the National Urban League on Tuesday in New York, where she thanked the group for “the extraordinary advice that they have given” to her campaign as both she and Senator Bernie Sanders seek to shore up support among blacks as the Democratic battlefield heads to South Carolina. “We have reached out and we’ve always found an open door and a responsive ear,” Mrs. Clinton told the group, which included the Rev. Al Sharpton, whose support both Democratic candidates have courted. “My campaign is really about breaking every barrier,” she added, an implication that Mr. Sanders has been overly focused on Wall Street while ignoring systemic racism, overhauling the criminal justice system and other issues important to back voters. “Because I believe absolutely that America can’t live up to its potential unless every single person has the chance to live up to theirs.” The group also included prominent civil rights figures including Cornell W. Brooks, president and chief executive of the N.A.A.C.P.; Kristen Clark, who heads the Lawyer’s Committee for Civil Rights Under Law; and Benjamin L. Crump, the president of the National Bar Association, who recently endorsed Mrs. Clinton. Mrs. Clinton said the group represented “hundreds and hundreds of years of important work” and that she looked “forward to talking about the agenda that each of you have put forth, giving you my ideas about what we can do to be effective and making clear that I’m not a single-issue candidate.” Mrs. Clinton talked about affirmative action, voting rights and other issues that disproportionately affect black voters. “What I am trying to do in my presidential campaign and what I will do as president,” she said, “is to lead a concerted effort to break every barrier that stands in the way of people living up to their God-given potential. That has been my North Star ever since I went to work for the Children’s Defense Fund right out of law school.” Reporters were escorted out of the room during a question-and-answer session between Mrs. Clinton and the group’s members, but she said afterward that it was “an excellent discussion.” After the meeting she went to Harlem to deliver a speech on race relations. Mr. Sanders also met with civil rights leaders on Tuesday in Washington, part of his continuing effort to catch up with Mrs. Clinton in earning the support of black voters, who will be crucial to the South Carolina Democratic primary’s results on Feb. 27.  When a reporter from Politico asked Mr. Sharpton which Democrat he would endorse, he warned Mrs. Clinton of the prying journalist.  “I told her only you know and you’re not telling,” Mr. Sharpton told Mrs. Clinton.  “My lips are sealed!” Mrs. Clinton said with a smile.