 Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York weighed in Monday on a potential presidential run by his predecessor, Michael R. Bloomberg, saying he did not believe Americans would “turn to billionaires to solve problems created by billionaires.” Despite their disagreements, Mr. de Blasio stressed his respect for Mr. Bloomberg, who served three terms as leader of the nation’s largest city. Still, the mayor said he could not support a Bloomberg candidacy, even one that remains notional at this point. “I don’t think that he’s focused on income inequality,” said Mr. de Blasio, who has molded his administration, now at its midway point, around that issue. “That is why I think the people of this country are going to look and say, ‘Some very wealthy and powerful people put us in this mess, and we’re going to want a solution that’s very different.’” Speaking at a news conference on New York’s response to a near-record snowfall, Mr. de Blasio reiterated at several points that “my candidate for president” is Hillary Clinton. “She will be the next president of the United States,” he said. “I’m very convinced.” Mr. Bloomberg has not announced he is running for president. But his advisers and associates have said they are drawing up plans for a possible independent candidacy at Mr. Bloomberg’s request, describing the billionaire New Yorker as frustrated with the sustained dominance of Donald J. Trump in the Republican race and the rise of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont among Democrats. Mr. de Blasio declined to describe his specific disagreements with Mr. Bloomberg — “I don’t want to go through a laundry list” – and instead focused on the issue of income inequality. Since becoming mayor in 2014, Mr. de Blasio has pushed initiatives such as universal pre-kindergarten, the construction of affordable housing, new outreach to homeless New Yorkers and policing changes, often presenting them in explicit or implicit contrast with the Bloomberg administration. In more recent months, as aides came to see the rift between the two men as an unnecessary liability, Mr. de Blasio has tempered his remarks, as evident on Monday. “I think he did a lot of great things for this city,” he said of Mr. Bloomberg. “Some of what he did, we are building upon very specifically. I always like to give credit where credit is due.” But that does not include supporting Mr. Bloomberg for president. Mr. de Blasio said his opposition to “billionaires” extended to Mr. Trump – also a New Yorker – though for different reasons. (He observed that Mrs. Clinton “is from New York as well.”) “Mr. Trump is talking about some of the profound economic challenges that we will face, not in the way I think is right,” Mr. de Blasio said. “But he has talked about the problem of the hedge funds not paying their fair share in taxes. He has talked about people’s economic anxiety and the decline of the middle class. I think that’s part of what’s fueling his support.” But he said he believed voters would ultimately not elect a wealthy leader such as Mr. Trump or Mr. Bloomberg. “This country is not going to turn to billionaires to solve problems created by billionaires,” he said, in an oblique reference the great recession and the increasing gap between rich and poor. “The country is not going to look for the status quo in this election. They want a fundamentally different vision.” He repeated: His candidate is Mrs. Clinton, not Mr. Sanders. 