 WINDHAM, N.H. — On Monday, just after she officially registered as a Democratic candidate in New Hampshire, Hillary Rodham Clinton declared, “This election is about our veterans.” It’s a line she will most likely repeat on Tuesday when she rolls out her proposals to help veterans and to improve the treatment they receive at the Department of Veterans Affairs while also criticizing Republicans for their proposals to privatize the department.  The policy rollout will take place in Derry at a town-hall-style event with men and women who served in the military, and it comes as Mrs. Clinton is fielding Republican attacks on her previous comments about the problems that have plagued the department.   In an interview with MSNBC’s “The Rachel Maddow Show” last month, Mrs. Clinton said the scandal over manipulated wait times at department hospitals had been overblown by Republicans for political gain.  “There have been a number of surveys of veterans, and over all, veterans who do get treated are satisfied with their treatment,” Mrs. Clinton said when asked how she would fix the department. “It’s not been as widespread as it has been made out to be,” she said of the problems Republicans often talk about. The Republican National Committee quickly seized on the remarks. “More than 300,000 veterans may have died waiting for care at V.A. facilities across the country in recent years,” said Michael Short, a committee spokesman. “When it comes to life-and-death problems facing our veterans, Hillary Clinton is simply out to lunch.” At a town hall-style event in Coralville, Iowa, last week, Mrs. Clinton said the country had a “mess” in dealing with veterans applying for disability, and she called for a “top to bottom” review of the Veterans Affairs Department. But, she added, “I am, however, concerned about Republican plans to privatize.” On Monday, at a town-hall-style event at a high school here, Mrs. Clinton reiterated that message, vowing to “work hard to fix the V.A., but I will defend it against those who wish to privatize it.”