 CORALVILLE, Iowa — With a new poll showing the fickle Iowa electorate warming to her candidacy, even the weather agreed with Hillary Rodham Clinton on Tuesday. For a campaign criticized for being risk averse, planning an outdoor rally in eastern Iowa in early November was a precarious move. There could have been rain, snow, hail or a wintry mix of the three. Instead, Mrs. Clinton got 65 degrees, sunshine and zero precipitation for a town hall-style event in what is known as part of the state’s liberal pocket that has been intrigued by the insurgent candidacy of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. “The young man in shorts,” Mrs. Clinton said as she called on a voter. “That’s a very optimistic November view,” she told the man. “But the weather is absolutely beautiful.” Mrs. Clinton’s campaign had reasons for optimism on Tuesday, too, as she answered questions on everything from what to do about land mines in Laos to the Department of Veterans Affairs and the escalating tensions in the South China Sea.  After a spate of polls this fall showed Mrs. Clinton losing ground to Mr. Sanders in Iowa, which she lost in 2008, an NBC/Wall Street Journal poll released on Tuesday showed that 62 percent of Democrats said Mrs. Clinton was their first choice, with 31 percent choosing Mr. Sanders.  Mrs. Clinton made no mention of polls on Tuesday. (After weeks of denouncing more problematic polls as unreliable, campaign aides remained mum.) But she did address the crowd, set up adjacent to a duck pond under a cloudless sky, with a newfound confidence to confront the Republicans in a general election. “You don’t hear them talking about the issues people talk to me about,” Mrs. Clinton said. “We have to make up our minds that we’re going to roll up our sleeves,” she added, “act like Americans again and start solving problems and getting results.” Standing behind a red-white-and-blue-festooned fence, Mrs. Clinton used her opening remarks to reinforce her stance on gun control, an issue that has become central to her race against Mr. Sanders, who voted against some gun control measures in the Senate. On Monday, Mrs. Clinton met with the mothers of black males killed by the police and in gun violence, including Michael Brown, Tamir Rice and Trayvon Martin. “They are determined to do what they can do to make sure this doesn’t happen to any other family and so will I,” Mrs. Clinton said. In what appeared to be a non sequitur, in response to a question about the Syrian migrant crisis in Europe, Mrs. Clinton brought up one potential Republican opponent by name, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida “On the Republican side, even people like Senator Rubio who used to be for comprehensive immigration reform are now against it,” she said. At one point, a man said his dog wanted to meet all the Democratic candidates personally, a request plausible only in this state where retail politics are so customary that even canines get involved.  “What are her issues?” Mrs. Clinton asked. The voter explained that his yard had a problem with rabbits. “Our landlord won’t secure the border,” he said. Mrs. Clinton said she supported securing the border when it comes to rabbits — but not human beings.