 Donald J. Trump’s son is going hunting for votes — and for deer.  While Mr. Trump is elsewhere in Iowa on Saturday, his son, Donald J. Trump Jr., will take part in Gov. Terry Branstad’s Annual Deer Hunt in the southern part of the state.  “For a guy like me from New York, where we don’t have quite the quality that you guys have, I wanted to come out early and make sure we got a few good days in there,” the younger Mr. Trump said in an interview with O. Kay Henderson, an Iowa radio host and reporter who is often a touchstone for candidates in both parties. “If you don’t put in the time, you’re not going to do well.” Mr. Trump described hunting as “relaxing.”  “Being from my family and New York, in a city like that, I think the fact that I was in a tree stand or a duck blind on many mornings probably kept me out of a lot of other trouble I would have gotten into growing up, and I love the lifestyle,” said Mr. Trump, calling hunting “an important tradition, a very American position.”  Mr. Trump and his younger brother Eric have been traveling on behalf of their father, and making news media appearances on his behalf. The two men have drawn criticism in the past for big-game hunting in Africa. Donald J. Trump Jr. said he thought one reason his father didn’t run for president in 2012 was because he was worried that his children “were too young” to take over Trump enterprises then. The candidate said last spring that he was now ready to hand his company over to Donald Jr., Eric and his daughter, Ivanka.  The first-born Trump — the sportsman in the family — tried to get the tags to hunt deer in Iowa last year but wasn’t successful. He got the tags this year and has long planned to “put in a solid week” on the hunt here. Mr. Trump said he’d been sleeping “in a buddy’s basement” in southern Iowa, with plans to leave after, with a little luck, having bagged a deer. As Senator Ted Cruz of Texas has gained steam in Iowa polls recently, the elder Mr. Trump has sharpened his language about his main rival. And having Donald Jr. appear at an event hosted by the state’s Republican governor is the sort of retail campaigning that Mr. Trump has not done this cycle. 