 Updated, 2:09 p.m. | DES MOINES — Hillary Clinton’s team declined Mayor Bill de Blasio’s initial offer to campaign in Iowa for her candidacy, the mayor said in an interview here on Sunday morning. “What I said was, I want to go do whatever’s needed,” Mr. de Blasio said in an interview over cappuccino and a bran muffin at the Smokey Row cafe here. “And the first response was, they don’t need more surrogates in Iowa, they’ve got plenty.” The New York mayor, who was slow to endorse Mrs. Clinton despite his longtime ties to her, said that he still wanted to find a way to aid her campaign: “I said, fine, you know, I’ll go wherever you want.” Mr. de Blasio said that while “the next obvious stop was New Hampshire, potentially,” he told the Clinton camp that he did not necessarily want to be a traditional surrogate. A former political operative who relishes campaigning, he said he clarified that he wanted to do “whatever kind of work you need,” including the typical volunteer duties of canvassing and door-knocking. “Then the answer was, ‘We need all the people we can get,’” Mr. de Blasio said. “Not in a bad way, in a normal way. Like, we need people who want to really do work in Iowa, because of course Iowa is about direct voter contact. More than any place in this whole calendar, this is about direct voter contact.” “So the minute I said, I’m ready to go do whatever’s needed, in the way of actual work, you know, that was quickly like, let’s go to Iowa,” the mayor said. “That’s literally, sequentially, how it happened,” he added. The Clinton team and Mr. de Blasio also discussed a possible surrogate appearance for him in New Hampshire, although not with Mrs. Clinton, according to two people granted anonymity to describe conversations intended to be private. The mayor said he preferred to campaign in Iowa instead, and offered to pay his own expenses, according to one of the people with knowledge of the discussions. The Clinton campaign, swamped on the final weekend before the presidential caucuses, said that contact with voters would be the best way for the mayor to help, this person said. The mayor plans to stay in Iowa through Tuesday — a day after the caucuses — and so far he has done exactly what he promised: low-key activities like door knocking, telephoning voters, and speaking privately with campaign volunteers. He is not scheduled to appear alongside Mrs. Clinton. In the interview, Mr. de Blasio said it was deeply meaningful for him to be in Iowa during what he called a significant political moment. “We may be at the beginning of a new progressive era, and we need to do everything we can to capture this moment and build it, and Hillary created a platform that really speaks to that moment,” the mayor said. “It’s very moving for me to help her because of what she stands for.”