 Updated, 12:06 a.m. | The Democratic National Committee laid out a detailed timeline Saturday of what happened when Senator Bernie Sanders’s campaign aides gained access to and copied Hillary Clinton’s proprietary voter data during a technological glitch, revealing new details to explain why it had blocked Mr. Sanders’s team from seeing its own data. The timeline was posted on Medium by the party committee’s chief executive, Amy Dacey, as the Sanders campaign continued to argue that it had been treated unfairly. The campaign took the extraordinary step of suing the party committee to regain its access to the voter file. Late Friday night, the party agreed to restore the campaign’s access. During Saturday night’s debate, Mr. Sanders repeated his complaint that the punishment was unfair, but he also apologized to Mrs. Clinton. His campaign also said Saturday that it had suspended two aides over the matter. It had earlier fired its national data director. At issue is a Democratic Party voter list to which both campaigns have access. Each campaign can add its own data, such as which voters it believes are likely to vote for its candidate, helping officials target their outreach. One campaign is not supposed to see another’s data, but for a few hours on Wednesday, a firewall between the campaigns was dropped while NGP VAN, the vendor that controls the 50-state voter file for the party committee, was adjusting a patch on the system. While each campaign could theoretically look at the others’ data, only the Sanders campaign did so, according to NGP VAN. The Sanders campaign initially said a low-level staff member had been involved. It later emerged that the campaign’s national data director, Josh Uretsky, had obtained information from the Clinton team. Mr. Uretsky was fired. Three other aides to the Sanders team were seen on audit logs making more than 25 targeted searches of Mrs. Clinton’s data pertaining to early-voting states. The party then denied the Sanders campaign access to the voter file, including its own data, a move campaign officials described as an overreaction. Ms. Dacey’s post included details that appeared to contradict the Sanders team’s early claims that it had not retained any of the information it looked at. Mr. Uretsky had also asserted that the only reason anyone from the Sanders campaign looked at Mrs. Clinton’s data was to establish proof of a data breach, not to peek into the Clinton campaign. But according to Ms. Dacey’s account, one of the people who looked at Mrs. Clinton’s data tried to delete records to remove traces of what he had done. “The information obtained so far shows that the D.N.C.’s concern to have a full, thorough inquiry was fully justified,” Ms. Dacey wrote. “As confirmed by the Sanders campaign in the account given the D.N.C. Friday evening, one of the employees of the campaign involved in the misconduct tried to delete the notes they made recording their accessing of Clinton campaign data to hide his activities.” Ms. Dacey added, “NGP VAN found that campaign staff on the Sanders campaign, including the campaign’s national data director, had accessed proprietary information about which voters were being targeted by the Clinton campaign —  and in doing so violated their agreements with the D.N.C.” She continued, “These staffers then saved this information in their personal folders on the system, and over the course of the next day, we learned that at least one staffer appeared to have generated reports and exported them from the system.” Ms. Dacey said that her team had asked Mr. Sanders’s campaign for more information on what had happened and for details of disciplinary actions it might take. She said the Sanders campaign had delayed providing additional documentation and information until late Friday evening. Once it did, the D.N.C. restored the campaign’s access to its own voter file, “as was always our intention and as we had advised well before they sued the committee,” she said. The D.N.C. has also asked NGP VAN to investigate how the breach happened.