 The debate lineup is set, the podium alignment announced, and Carly Fiorina is still not added to the debate stage. ABC News made the Republican primary in New Hampshire a single-debate show in a news release on Thursday, and Mrs. Fiorina, who did not meet ABC’s polling requirements, was not added. Donald J. Trump will again find himself at the center of the podium on Saturday, making his return to the debate stage after skipping the last debate in Iowa because of a feud with Fox News. On either side of him will be Senators Ted Cruz of Texas and Marco Rubio of Florida. Rounding out the stage will be Jeb Bush, Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey and Ben Carson.  Republican candidates past and present had been arguing for Mrs. Fiorina to make the stage. Mitt Romney voiced his support for Mrs. Fiorina to make the debate stage through Twitter, noting that she earned more votes in Iowa than Mr. Christie or Mr. Kasich. Newt Gingrich also called for ABC to include Mrs. Fiorina. And at a campaign event in New Hampshire on Thursday, Mr. Cruz said that Mrs. Fiorina “deserves to be up on that stage.” Senator Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire also called for Mrs. Fiorina’s inclusion, saying, “ABC News’ decision to exclude her from Saturday’s debate on the eve of our primary, while she is outperforming one of the other debate participants in New Hampshire polls, undermines our role in the primary process.” On Thursday night, Ms. Fiorina drew audible groans from an audience at an office complex in Nashua, N.H., when she informed them that she’d learned of her exclusion from the debate as she walked into the event. She attacked the debate decision as a ploy by ABC News and the Republican National Committee to disempower the voters of New Hampshire, and to limit their choices on Feb. 9. Citing her fund-raising performance and campaign organization as proof of her electoral credibility, Ms. Fiorina called it an outrage that she should be barred from the debate when two candidates she narrowly
outperformed in Iowa, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey and Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, would be allowed to participate. (All three of them earned less than 2 percent of the Iowa vote.) “There are going to be seven guys standing on that stage and one candidate who’s more viable than a bunch of them, who’s not allowed to debate,” she said, adding, “Frankly, I think there a bunch of guys on
that stage who are afraid of me. I know Hillary Clinton’s afraid of me.” Alexander Burns contributed reporting from Nashua, N.H.