 Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton are racing toward a general election matchup, according to a new poll that shows the presidential candidates with dominant national leads atop their parties. A CNN/ORC survey released on Monday found that 49 percent of likely Republican voters support Mr. Trump. Trailing him are Senator Marco Rubio with 16 percent, Senator Ted Cruz with 15 percent, Ben Carson with 10 percent and Gov. John Kasich with 6 percent. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points. The results reflect the strongest support to date for Mr. Trump, who has benefited from the shrinking Republican field, and set him up well for this week’s Super Tuesday races, when nearly a dozen contests could fortify his delegate lead. Voters say Mr. Trump is best suited to solve the country’s problems and handle the job of commander in chief. They also see the businessman as the candidate who best understands their problems as the most honest of the candidates. The poll was conducted, in part, after the last Republican presidential debate, when Mr. Rubio took a more aggressive approach with Mr. Trump. Since then, the Florida senator has employed a new strategy of publicly mocking him and his record. That may have come too late, however, as the CNN poll shows that 68 percent of Republicans say they have definitely made up their minds about which candidate they will back. As for the Democrats, Mrs. Clinton’s lead has also widened. The former secretary of state now leads Senator Bernie Sanders among likely Democratic voters by a margin of 55 percent to 38 percent. Mrs. Clinton leads by most measures, except when it comes to trust. On that question, Mr. Sanders is seen as stronger, with 59 percent thinking he is the more honest Democratic candidate. While only four states have held primary contests so far, most Republicans and Democrats expect Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton to face off in November. Of likely voters in both parties, 70 percent predict that they will get the nominations of their parties.