 Rand Paul went quickly from one race to another on Wednesday as both parties zeroed in on his Senate re-election bid almost as soon as he had quit the Republican presidential primary campaign. The National Republican Senatorial Committee fired out a statement noting that the Kentucky Republican’s “commitment to fighting for Kentucky families remains unchanged.” The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee took a slightly different line, saying that Mr. Paul “returns home damaged and completely out of touch with the people he’s ignored.” The Democratic National Committee took a whack at him as well. At the same time, the conservative groups FreedomWorks and the Club for Growth renewed their support for Mr. Paul in his Senate re-election attempt, which has gotten more complicated with the entry of Jim Gray, the Democratic mayor of Lexington. Mr. Paul, who tried to keep up his Senate attendance record while campaigning, no doubt has some repair work to do at home. His interest in the White House after less than one term in the Senate will make it easy for opponents to portray him as not being devoted to Kentucky and seeing his Senate seat mainly as a steppingstone. His relatively poor performance in the White House race could turn off voters as well. Mr. Gray, in his own statement on Mr. Paul’s dashed presidential hopes, hit on those points. “Now that he’s failed to catch fire with voters in other states, he’s coming back,” Mr. Gray said in the statement. “Well, we deserve to be more than just a fallback plan.” However, Kentucky has become increasingly Republican and strongly resistant to Democrats during the Obama years. Senator Mitch McConnell, Mr. Paul’s fellow Republican and the Senate leader, has hit the administration incessantly for its “war on coal” — still a major industry in Kentucky. Republicans will be very determined in their efforts to tie Mr. Gray, or whoever the Democratic nominee is, to Mr. Obama and his party’s policies.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.