 Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign raised $37 million in the three-month period that ended Dec. 31, filling the war chest of a campaign that has pulled in more than $112 million overall for the Democratic contest, her campaign said Friday. The campaign spent $74 million of that money in 2015 as it established a ground operation in states beyond the four early nominating contests, and it invested heavily in Iowa and New Hampshire, where Mrs. Clinton’s main Democratic rival, Senator Bernie Sanders, has strong support. “We are now heading into Iowa and New Hampshire with the resources we need to be successful,” Robby Mook, Mrs. Clinton’s campaign manager, said in a statement announcing the figures. Mr. Sanders, who has rejected the support of a “super PAC,” amassed an army of small-dollar donations in raising about $26.2 million in the previous quarter, when Mrs. Clinton raised $29.9 million. The Sanders campaign has not yet released its fourth-quarter figures. Mrs. Clinton relies more heavily on larger donations. She has spent months crisscrossing the country to attend fund-raising events that bring in up to $2,700, the maximum donation allowed for the nominating contest. But her campaign has received a wave of smaller donations, particularly after Mrs. Clinton’s testimony before the Benghazi committee in Congress and following her debate performances, aides said. The campaign declined to say what percentage of the $37 million it brought in the fourth quarter came from small contributions. In a sign that the Clinton operation is also looking past the nominating contest, the campaign said that while it was only soliciting donations for the primaries, it had also raised $1 million in donations to be used in the general election. Mrs. Clinton also raised more than $18 million for the Democratic National Committee and state parties throughout the country where Democrats at the state level have suffered losses. Two of the Republican candidates, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Ben Carson, have released their fund-raising totals for the quarter, with Mr. Cruz raising $20 million, a two-thirds increase over his previous quarter, and Mr. Carson raising $23 million.