 The love-fest between Donald J. Trump and Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey could hardly have been more effusive on Friday. Unveiling Mr. Christie’s endorsement, Mr. Trump called him a “spectacular governor” and a close friend whose support he coveted deeply. Mr. Christie said Mr. Trump was by far the best leader to take America forward and a true fighter. But it was not always that way. In the months before Mr. Christie dropped out of the race for the Republican presidential nomination, he frequently hit Mr. Trump as reality television star who was not fit to lead the country. Mr. Trump said at the time that Mr. Christie’s management of his state was a failure and that he had misled people about the George Washington Bridge lane-closing scandal. In their own words, here is a reminder of how fast friendships in politics can change. Mr. Christie on Mr. Trump’s qualifications: “But there are folks in this race who don’t care about what the law says because they’re used to being able to just fire people indiscriminately on television.” Mr. Christie on Mr. Trump’s proposed ban on Muslim immigration: “That’s ridiculous.” Mr. Trump on Mr. Christie’s management of New Jersey: “Nine downgrades. It’s a disaster. I have property over there. The taxes are through — I’ll use an expression: coming out of my ears. Tremendous taxes over there.” Trump on Mr. Christie and Mr. Obama: “He was so warm, and so happy to have Barack Obama in the state of New Jersey that I personally think it could have cost Romney the election.” Mr. Trump on “Bridgegate”: “Chris can’t win because of his past. I don’t believe you’ve heard the last of the George Washington Bridge, because there’s no way he didn’t know about the closure of the George Washington Bridge, and all of his people are now going on trial in the very near future. And they’re going on criminal trial. There’s no way he didn’t know about it.” Mr. Trump on Mr. Christie being a failed governor: “Chris took himself down when he did the George Washington Bridge, and he took himself down when he’s rated number 50 out of 50 in New Jersey. I mean, it’s the 50th worst state, meaning it’s last.” Mr. Christie on Trump and leadership: “Showtime is over. We are not electing an entertainer-in-chief. Showmanship is fun, but it is not the kind of leadership that will truly change America.” Mr. Trump on Mr. Christie attacking him: “He shouldn’t be talking like that, I’m surprised that he would be talking like that. I know him and I guess he used to be a friend until this all happened.”