 Ceremonial first pitches. Luxury box seats. An athlete’s airport greeting for a returning service member. And at least one appearance by the cheerleaders of the Indianapolis Colts. Those are just some of the goodies a Senate investigation unearthed in the military’s marketing contracts with professional sports teams, according to a report released on Wednesday. Over the past four years, the Army National Guard and other branches have signed agreements worth $6.8 million with teams from the National Football League, Major League Baseball and other sports leagues that included “paid-for patriotism,” said Senators Jeff Flake and John McCain, Republicans of Arizona. It is unclear exactly how much of that marketing money paid for ceremonies with names like “Salute to Service” and other recognition of the armed forces. And the report conceded that $6.8 million was just a sliver of the $53 million the military spent on advertising with sports teams during that time. But standing beside a poster of an old-time football player in a “McCain Flake” jersey sacking Uncle Sam, the senators said that neither the military nor the teams came out looking good — especially when fans are led to believe that the presentations are purely motivated by patriotism, as many are. “We appreciate if they honor the men and women in uniform, but not to get paid for it,” Mr. McCain said. The investigation began when Mr. Flake’s office went looking for an N.F.L. draft-themed feature for a weekly news release on wasteful spending and stumbled across a National Guard contract with the New York Jets. Roger Goodell, the N.F.L. commissioner, in a letter to the senators that was provided in the report, said that the league planned to review all contracts between teams and the military for the “inappropriate” use of recruiting funds. The senators offered an amendment to next year’s defense spending bill that passed this year that prohibits the use of taxpayer money to pay for military tributes at sporting events. Few teams are left out of the 150-page report. There’s the $49,000 the Wisconsin Army National Guard paid the Milwaukee Brewers last year to sponsor some playings of “God Bless America.” The Jets received $20,000 to salute two soldiers as “Hometown Heroes.” Another major expenditure? Tickets, such as 160 general admission tickets and four season-ticket packages and field passes each year for three years to see the New England Patriots. The Air Force paid the Cincinnati Bengals almost $5,000 for 60 club-level tickets, while the Indiana Army National Guard reserved 40 lower-level, center-court seats.  “If the most compelling message about military service we can deliver to prospective recruits and influencers is the promise of game tickets, gifts and player appearances, we need to rethink our approach to how we are inspiring qualified men and women to military service,” the report said.