 The latest Democratic presidential debate exposed almost nothing that was genuinely new between Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont — and yet both were loaded for bear.  Mr. Sanders was newly aggressive against Mrs. Clinton, accusing her of a “low blow” for saying he has been overly critical of President Obama. Mrs. Clinton, seemingly mindful of her voice level after criticism that she had been shouting during the last debate, rapped Mr. Sanders as unrealistic in the types of health care plans he is putting forward. And Mr. Sanders seemed to tread on thin ice when saying he would be better at soothing race relations than Mr. Obama. As in previous debates, Mrs. Clinton was at her strongest on foreign policy and her weakest in defending things like the “super PAC” that supports her. She tried to hold the group, which is run by a former aide, at arm’s length, and awkwardly. Mr. Sanders was, as he has been, strongest on income inequality and bleak on foreign policy, repeatedly reverting to the same line about how he had opposed the war in Iraq and Mrs. Clinton had not, in a fashion not precisely similar to Senator Marco Rubio of Florida in the last Republican debate, but not totally different, either.  But Mr. Sanders has improved drastically in a brief period in these debates. He was strongest when he deflected the question about Mr. Obama, asking Mrs. Clinton whether she had ever disagreed with a president. Mrs. Clinton was at her strongest at the very end in her closing statement, with a new line that she is almost certain to use in the future: “I am not a single-issue candidate, and I do not think we live in a single-issue country.”  How much this changes the contours of the race heading into the Nevada caucuses and the South Carolina primary is unclear. But Mrs. Clinton needed to show she could get off the mat after her New Hampshire loss, and she achieved that. Now, it’s onto the Republican debate this weekend, at which Donald J. Trump will probably be the main target of most of his rivals for the first time.