 Hillary Clinton’s campaign raised more than $30.1 million in February to be used toward defeating Senator Bernie Sanders in the Democratic primary and began March with $30.8 million on hand, according to the campaign’s Federal Election Commission report released on Sunday. Despite her lead in the race for the delegates needed to secure the nomination and the donors urging her campaign to shift her focus to the general election, Mrs. Clinton has continued to focus on raising money for the primary. Her campaign raised just $715,408 in February to be used toward the general election. She also raised $4.4 million last month for the Democratic National Committee to use on state parties and down ballot races throughout the country. In her victory speech in West Palm Beach, Fla., on Tuesday night, Mrs. Clinton implored supporters to make small-dollar donations to her campaign. “We are moving closer to securing the Democratic Party nomination and winning this election in November,” she said. “If you’ve been waiting for the right moment, now’s the time.” Mrs. Clinton has spent the days since she swept the five states that voted on Tuesday attending fund-raisers to ask for donations of up to $2,700, the maximum allowed in a primary. The campaign has tried to build up its grass-roots fund-raising as Mr. Sanders has nearly kept up in donations, relying almost exclusively on his army of young supporters who give online in small increments. In February, the Clinton campaign raised roughly $10.5 million from contributions of $200 and has boasted that more than one million people have donated via hillaryclinton.com. “We have the resources we need to continue to run a strong campaign all across the country and a nearly insurmountable pledged delegate lead,” the campaign manager, Robby Mook, said in a statement. After a couple days off the campaign trail, Mrs. Clinton will speak at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee conference in Washington on Monday, followed by a rally in Arizona, which holds its primary contest on Tuesday.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.