 PHILADELPHIA — The prime-time lineup for Night 1 of the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia was full of political star power: the first lady, Michelle Obama; Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont all addressed the crowd, and speeches were given by athletes, activists and celebrities. Here are the highlights:: • In an emotional finale to his campaign, Mr. Sanders was greeted with a standing ovation and was frequently interrupted by thunderous applause. Speaking directly to his supporters — many of whom were in the hall as delegates — he sympathized with their disappointment and urged them to take “enormous pride” in what they had started. But, he said, the time had come. “By these measures, any objective observer will conclude that — based on her ideas and her leadership — Hillary Clinton must become the next president of the United States,” Mr. Sanders said several minutes into his remarks. “The choice is not even close.” _____ • In one of the night’s most anticipated addresses, Mrs. Obama framed the election in terms of America’s children, including her own. In a veiled knock at Donald J. Trump, she described how she and President Obama urged their own daughters “to ignore those who question their father’s citizenship or faith.” Mrs. Clinton, on the other hand, would show America’s children for four or eight years “that everyone in this country matters,” Mrs. Obama said in a speech that drew immediate praise. _____ • Ms. Warren, speaking near the end of the program, delivered a fiery, populist appeal for Mrs. Clinton, even as some in the arena who were disdainful of her endorsement chanted, “We trusted you. We trusted you.” Painting Mr. Trump as the product and protector of a “rigged system,” she said that Mrs. Clinton would fight against the hallmarks of that system: big banks and those who profit from student debt. “Trump’s entire campaign,” Ms. Warren said, “is just one more late-night Trump infomercial.” _____ • Mrs. Clinton may not have picked Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey as her running mate, but he still gave his best attack dog performance. Mr. Trump, he said, seems to think that America is “a zero-sum nation,” and he concluded with a common refrain: “In America, love always trumps hate.” _____ • Sarah Silverman, a comedian and supporter of Mr. Sanders, had a message for his most ardent fans: “To the Bernie or bust people, let me just tell you, you’re being ridiculous.” Her words were met with raucous applause, as was her declaration that she would “proudly vote” for Mrs. Clinton. Mr. Sanders, she said, showed his supporters “what is possible and what we deserve,” but now the best way to honor his movement is by voting for Mrs. Clinton. “For the last year, I’ve been feeling the Bern,” she joked. “Relax, I put some cream on it.” • Mr. Trump has trotted out a number of endorsements from professional athletes. On Monday, Jason Collins, the first N.B.A. player to come out as gay, and his brother and fellow N.B.A. player, Jarron Collins, gave Mrs. Clinton their support. The Clintons, Jason Collins said, “knew that my sexual orientation made no difference in my ability to play basketball, just as someone’s gender makes no difference in his or her ability to lead our nation.” Jarron Collins warned of the example Mr. Trump would set for his own children, whose mother is Mexican-American. “When it comes to Donald Trump,” he said “how do you tell your kids not to be a bully if their president is one?” _____ • “I’m Al Franken, Minnesotan, senator and world renowned expert on right-wing megalomaniacs: Rush Limbaugh, Bill O’Reilly, and now, Donald Trump,” said Senator Al Franken of Minnesota, deadpanning, before launching into a spoof of Mr. Trump that recalled his work on Saturday Night Live. Calling himself “a proud alum of Trump U.,” Mr. Franken lampooned the Trump educational program, its offerings and its fees. (“Ten percent higher” for students, he joked.) _____ • Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, who was Mrs. Clinton’s successor in the Senate, zeroed in on the struggles of working parents. As she ticked through Mrs. Clinton’s record on issues like paid family leave, affordable child care, and women’s pay, she said that no other candidate would put “families first” as Mrs. Clinton would, or update the nation’s laws as she would to reflect those priorities.