 As its favored candidate strains to improve languishing poll numbers, the “super PAC” supporting Jeb Bush is keeping busy. The group appears to be targeting two of Mr. Bush’s rivals who have gained a measure of traction with establishment Republicans: Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida. The super PAC, Right to Rise, dispatched representatives to Ohio to scour documents related to Mr. Kasich at a public library in Westerville. “Jeb’s oppo team’s in OH now rifling thru my archives,” Mr. Kasich posted on Twitter on Thursday night.  https://www.twitter.com/JohnKasich/status/649754772334100480 And in Iowa on Thursday, the group sent a tracker to gather footage at an event for Mr. Rubio. The tracker was asked to leave, according to Politico, which reported the move.  A spokesman for Right to Rise, Paul Lindsay, said the group was “collecting routine, issue-based research on all the candidates in the race.” “Iowa and central Ohio are also wonderful places to visit this time of year,” he added, calling the breakfast at a Fairfield Inn in Westerville “fantastic.” Mr. Bush himself has begun tweaking Mr. Rubio with greater frequency in recent days, taking particular aim at his relative lack of experience. The needling comes as Mr. Rubio’s standing in polls has risen recently. “Marco was a member of the House of Representatives when I was governor, and he followed my lead,” Mr. Bush told MSNBC on Thursday. He was asked if Mr. Rubio had the leadership skills to be president. “It’s not known,” he said. “Barack Obama didn’t end up having them and he won an election on the belief that he could.” Mr. Bush has also drawn attention to his plan to dock the pay of lawmakers who miss votes — which has been interpreted as a jab at Mr. Rubio, who has done so frequently. Speaking to reporters after a town hall-style event in Bedford, N.H., on Wednesday night, Mr. Bush was asked if Mr. Rubio’s voting record was a problem. “I think if you had a dock-in-pay strategy, you’d probably get more attendance,” he said generally, before an aide rushed him off.