 New York Times readers responded strongly to the revelation that members of President Trump’s campaign staff and other associates spoke repeatedly to Russian officials in the year before the election, according to four current and former American officials. Below is a selection of the thousands of comments received on nytimes.com. Comments were edited for length and clarity. Some readers questioned whether the actions of Mr. Trump’s campaign staff and associates were treasonous. “I’m trying to figure out one scenario where the Trump campaign having repeated contacts with Russian intelligence during the campaign is NOT treasonous. Either they were collaborating with the Russians or they were private citizens engaging in foreign diplomacy. Neither is OK.” — Dan in Atlanta “These Russian contacts could, potentially, be treason. That puts this at a whole other level. Things are moving at warp speed by D.C. standards. Something big is happening, very big.” — RBS in Maine _____  But many readers were more concerned about United States officials disclosing information about the contacts with Russian intelligence officials.  “Why are intel officers leaking classified investigations? That should be the real story. The leakers see themselves as above the law.” — Brian in Boston “Far too many Trump critics appear not to care that these intelligence agents leaked highly sensitive information to the press — mostly because Trump critics are pleased with the result. President Trump is correct. These leaks are an enormous problem. And in a less polarized context, they would be recognized immediately for what they clearly are: an effort to manipulate public opinion for the sake of achieving a desired political outcome. It is weaponized spin.” — Joe Perrino in US “While I’m appalled by Michael Flynn’s actions and the general ineptitude that is being demonstrated by the new administration, I am equally worried about an aspect of this case that is being overlooked. Namely, a new American presidential administration and its officials are being undermined and second-guessed by a series of leaks, including intelligence leaks, consisting of material presumably from wiretaps on American citizens, namely Flynn and possibly others, who were incoming members of that administration. This is an equally, if not more alarming and ugly development in American democratic politics.” — Alan Carmody in New York _____ Other readers  called the matter  evidence of a “witch hunt” against Republicans, or “sour grapes” on the part of Democrats. “The Republicans won the election and the Democrats are furious with the outcome. The investigation will lead them to the same conclusion: that Mr. Trump won fair and square. They cannot fathom that their candidate, Hillary Clinton, was the loser. It is a case of sour grapes. How much are these continual investigations costing the taxpayers? ” — WMK in New York _____ Some readers criticized The Times for publishing an article based on four anonymous sources, all credited as current or former American officials. “Even the unnamed in this article say there is no evidence of a crime. It is all talk, no substance. Hey, look over here, a bunch of calls were made. Then a bunch of subtle hinting at things that never happened. Fake news.” — Smoke in New York “Enough. Enough. Enough. This is tantamount to fomenting a coup of a democratically elected government. You are dreadfully irresponsible. You owe the American public more than the anonymous voices of cowards. Treasonous cowards I might add. You have no right to publish the unfounded, unverified gossip when it has this level of impact. Get the names on record. I want proof, not gossip from moles. If their conviction is so strong, give us names.” — Scott Covin in Jacksonville, Fla. “When information was leaked about the unsavory dealings of the DNC, the exposed scandal was mostly ignored and the reporting centered only on how the information was obtained. Now that the shoe’s on the other foot, the media is focused on accusations and innuendo with little regard for the ‘anonymous’ sources or the fact that they could be leaking classified information, It’s sad that that’s the NYT I’ve come to expect.” — Dave T. in Chicago _____ Many readers questioned whether  the director of the F.B.I., James B. Comey, knew about the contacts with senior Russian intelligence officials. “There’s something wrong here. Comey announces to the world, right before the election, that the F.B.I is investigating newly found emails involving Hillary Clinton, but at the last hour reveals that nothing new was found. Meanwhile, nothing at all is disclosed about an ongoing investigation into unauthorized contacts between the Trump campaign and Russian intelligence, which apparently runs deeper than anyone could ever imagine. What is going on in this country?” — Ez1 in Monterey, Calif. _____ Other  readers disagreed, saying that Mr. Comey was not to blame for the latest allegations.  “I still believe, in time, Jim Comey will be found to be an honest broker. I, too, am very disappointed by his actions re: [Hillary Clinton] before the election. But looking at the larger picture of his career, he has done many admirable things. I hope he will soon bring some criminal charges.” — Janie in the Midwest “Director Comey is no dummy. I tend to believe that he favored the Republican party during the campaign, ignored the ‘bad news’ and put his finger on the scale. Then, it would seem, he opened his eyes to see just how incompetent Trump is and is now forced to take action.” — WillyD in New Jersey _____ Some  called the difference in the treatment of Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Trump an example of male privilege. “Lets see. Hillary Clinton uses an unprotected server, putting her messages at risk of being intercepted by the Russians. Meanwhile Donald Trump and his gang communicated directly with the Russians before the election. That’s OK because they’re successful hard driving business executives who play all the angles? That’s male privilege at its absolute best.” — Carl Hultberg in New Hampshire _____ Other readers would like to see Mr. Trump be transparent with the American people. “Americans need Trump to come clean on his ties to Russia. Our national security is compromised.” — John Adams in California “I am no expert in how campaigns are run but it seems believable that it’s normal (and perhaps advisable) for them to talk to important foreign players. Why doesn’t the Trump team simply point this out? It might not be the talks themselves, but the cover up afterwards, that hurts this administration the most. The attempts at a cover up make the administration look guilty.” — Alex Grove in London _____ Several readers recommended writing to members of Congress or protesting as a way to register anger with the government’s response to the revelations. “This goes beyond politics. Call your representatives to urge them to open an independent investigation led by a special prosecutor, not Jeff Sessions, who was intimately involved in the Trump campaign, which we are now learning was colluding with the Russian government to interfere in the election.” — DBT in Houston “There must be protests on a massive scale to pressure them into patriotism, protests bigger than the Women’s March, on par with Romania a few weeks ago. The stakes are too high to do anything less.” — Ashleigh Adams in Colorado _____