 RYE, N.H. — Jeb Bush needs a boost. He’s getting a bus. As his presidential campaign limps through the fall, Mr. Bush invited a small group of reporters on Tuesday aboard his new ride, with “Jeb Can Fix It” etched across the side. A recap of how it played out: 6:34 p.m. Mr. Bush comes to the back, where two long black leather couches stretch beneath the windows. “Nice boots,” he says to a television reporter, striding over in his own. They are inscribed with his name. 6:38 Mr. Bush is asked why he’s on a bus. “You get to hang out with people,” he says. “We’ll have people off and on the bus, not just press but people from New Hampshire. Put the full court press on ‘em. Before they leave, they’ve got to say, ‘Yes, I’m for you.’ ” Dutiful laughter fills the bus. “Shh. It’s a secret plan,” he says. “We’ll talk about that later.” 6:43 A local television reporter, who has been covering Mr. Bush, introduces herself. “You don’t think we notice you?” he asks. “You’re hurting my feelings that I wouldn’t recognize you.” He crosses his legs, boot heel angled skyward. 6:48 Mr. Bush recalls last week’s debate. “The debate, the so-called debate, is more of a performance,” he says. “It gives you an opportunity to say whatever you want. I’ve got to train myself to say what’s on my mind rather than what the question is.” How can he master that art? “After 62 years?” he asks. He laughs at himself. “I don’t think any question that we prepared for was a question we were asked,” he continues, knocking the CNBC moderators, “because they didn’t do anything they said they were going to do.” 6:50 Mr. Bush is asked about his nerves. “I felt really good about the debate I screwed up on,” he says. He clarifies that this was before the debate started: “No, I felt bad after.” What happens? “I got shouted down when I tried to interrupt in the beginning. Then I couldn’t finish the sentence in the Marco deal,” he says, about an exchange regarding Marco Rubio’s Senate voting record. Mr. Bush is asked if he has to stop directly answering the debate questions to succeed. “Yeah. I’ve got to stop doing that. It’s kind of weird, but that’s why it’s not really a debate.” 6:52 Mr. Bush decides he should keep answering questions after all, to a point. “I’ve just got to be clear about what I want to say,” he says. “I think I know what I want to say.” 6:54 Mr. Bush discusses his media consumption habits. “I don’t read every word of what you guys record or write,” he says. “There’s a lot of stuff. Everybody’s prolific in their reporting and stuff. And it doesn’t help me get better, per se.” 6:58 Mr. Bush discusses his actual consumption habits. “Maybe after,” he says, waving off an aide offering M&amp;Ms. “I’ve got another gig here.” “A little energy?” the aide, Tim Miller, says. “A little sustenance?” Mr. Bush feigns annoyance at the echo of a Trumpian insult: “You think I need a little more energy?” He scoops up some turkey jerky. 7:01 Mr. Bush is asked about how to reconcile his campaign message with voter frustrations.
 “You’ve got to connect with that frustration,” he says, adding, “Can you rely on someone that has no proven record of getting things done?” 7:03 Mr. Bush recalls his attack on Mr. Rubio during the debate, when he likened life in Congress to a “French workweek.” “I really did a disservice to the French,” he says. “I now know that the average French workweek is actually greater than the German workweek. And so, my God, I totally insulted an entire country, our first ally, that helped us become free as a nation. And I apologize.” 7:05 Mr. Bush mulls the groundswell of support for Donald J. Trump and Ben Carson. “I’m not smart enough to know, to explain the Trump or Carson phenomena yet,” he says. “Carson is such a nice person. I mean, he’s really a nice guy.” Mr. Bush is asked if someone without any government experience can succeed as president. “We might find out,” he says. 7:07 Mr. Bush, after mentioning Richard M. Nixon’s famous visit to China, wonders if his references are connecting. “I used the Nixon-to-China analogy once in front of a group of young people who looked at me like, ‘Who’s Nixon?’” he says. He turns to this reporter: “Do you know what the Nixon-to-China moment is?” I do. 7:08 Mr. Bush muses on his new physique, aided by a paleo diet.  “Does it take getting used to?” he asks, repeating a reporter’s question. “No.” He chides those who failed to join him at Gold’s Gym in Charleston, S.C. “At 5:30, I was there,” he says. 7:09 Mr. Bush is not done musing. “I am in good shape,” he says for emphasis. 7:10 Mr. Bush, asked a pro forma question about how he stays positive every day, waxes surprisingly philosophical. “I’ve learned to accept the fact that I am imperfect under God’s watchful eye,” he says. “I can get better. I don’t have a self-esteem problem and I don’t have an overstated worth problem. There’s a balance that I’ve acquired in life through my journey in life that gives me serenity.” 7:13 Mr. Bush notes his staff members’ ability to overcome obstacles during his time as Florida governor.  “We all learned how to identify — I can’t use the terms that we used — the poo bombs that were around the corner,” he says. He extends the analogy: “They learned how to anticipate these things happening, look up, take two steps to the side, let it splat on the sidewalk and keep going.” 7:14 Mr. Bush praises his campaign workers’ dedication to details. “We’ve laid out more details, scored by all the nerdy bean counters,” he says of his policy proposals. 7:15 Mr. Bush excuses himself.  “I’ve got to get into my mind-set here,” he says, as the bus arrives in Raymond, N.H., for a town hall. 7:16 Mr. Bush teases his campaign workers’ dedication to details.  “You’ve got 47 minutes for Q. and A.?” he asks an aide with his schedule, within earshot of the reporters. “What about 45 and a half?” He steps off the bus.