 Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, whose campaign has seen some positive signs in New Hampshire, has been endorsed by two more newspapers in the region, The Boston Globe and The Concord Monitor. One of his rivals, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, picked up the endorsement of The Boston Herald. Both Mr. Kasich and Mr. Christie have focused their campaigns on New Hampshire, where the primary is Feb. 9. They are competing for many of the same voters, along with two other Republicans in the so-called establishment lane, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida and former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida. Mr. Kasich’s latest endorsements cited his experience in elected office, but also the tone he has taken in his campaign. The Globe, which endorsed Mr. Kasich on Monday, called him “an important voice of sanity in this year’s field.” “By voting for Kasich,” the newspaper wrote, “New Hampshire can reward a candidate whose politics have been largely positive — and rebuke those candidates who have spent their campaign appealing to voters’ fears and biases.” The Monitor took a similar approach, writing on Tuesday, “He is an old-school, pragmatic leader of high character and decency who doesn’t want to waste valuable time – his or voters’ – by wallowing in the political muck of the moment.”  The newspaper added that a general election contest between Mr. Kasich and Hillary Clinton “would elevate the debate to a level we haven’t seen in a long time.” Both The Globe and The Monitor endorsed Jon M. Huntsman Jr., a Republican and former Utah governor, before the 2012 New Hampshire primary. Mr. Huntsman appealed to centrist voters, the way Mr. Kasich is trying to do, and finished third with 17 percent of the vote, but dropped out of the race soon afterward. Mr. Kasich has also received the backing of The Portsmouth Herald and Foster’s Daily Democrat, which published a joint endorsement, and The Telegraph of Nashua. Mr. Christie has been endorsed by the state’s largest paper, The New Hampshire Union Leader. Endorsing Mr. Christie on Monday, The Herald, which backed Mitt Romney before the 2012 primary, cited his experience with terrorism from his time as a federal prosecutor.  “And there is just something about that Jersey guy attitude — feisty but not meanspirited, tough but not hateful — that has a shot at taking an angry electorate and helping it find a focus and a purpose,” the newspaper wrote.