 Protesters in Arizona blocked a major road leading to a Donald J. Trump rally on Saturday outside Phoenix, while anti-Trump demonstrators in New York clashed with the police on a march toward Trump Tower. In Arizona, about 50 to 75 protesters and three parked cars blocked Shea Boulevard, an artery leading into Fountain Hills, the suburb where Mr. Trump spoke on Saturday afternoon, which led to traffic delays in the area. Some protesters chained themselves to the cars, according to a spokesman from the Maricopa County sheriff’s office. Others stood in the street, holding signs and chanting as the temperature climbed into the 80s and anxious drivers sat stuck in their cars. — Patrick Breen (@pjbreenphoto) March 19, 2016  — Puente Arizona (@PuenteAZ) March 19, 2016  After multiple requests that the protesters clear the road, sheriff’s deputies began towing cars, and three people were arrested. “They tried to get us to move,” said one of the protesters, Tomás Robles Jr. “We told them we were not going to move.” Eventually many of them began marching to the rally, but did not make it close to the stage. Instead they marched single file across a nearby lawn, then found themselves surrounded by sheriff’s deputies on horseback and all-terrain vehicles on one side, and Trump supporters on the other, chanting “U.S.A.! U.S.A.!” When the rally began, the Maricopa County sheriff, Joe Arpaio — who like Mr. Trump has a hard-line stance on immigration, many fans and many critics — introduced the candidate and spoke briefly about the demonstrators. “Because of them, we had to get a little more sunshine, but we made it,” Sheriff Arpaio said. “Three of them are in jail,” he added, to cheers. The rally itself was tame by Mr. Trump’s standards, and was not disrupted once. He spoke from a stage on the edge of a lake where a giant fountain spits water high in the air at the top of every hour.  With the Arizona primary coming Tuesday, Mr. Trump urged rallygoers to “go vote, go vote,” then closed with a message for them: “You know where we’re going to win? And this is for the people of Phoenix, Arizona: We’re going to win at the border.” In New York, several hundred protesters gathered at Columbus Circle outside the Trump International Hotel there. One brandished a sign that read, “No Wall Around the Land of the Free.” Another sign suggested a wall be built around Mr. Trump.  Gina Rodriguez, 28, of Harlem, said, “When Trump talks, I feel like he is targeting my community.” The first conflicts took place just after 1:30 p.m. as the crowd sought to cross 59th Street and head south at the Avenue of the Americas. They chanted, “Dump Trump” and “Don’t give into racist fear.” A line of police officers, scooters and barricades blocked their way as some protesters shouted that they had the light. Then, after a countdown, a mass of protesters surged forward, with those behind digging their heels into the sidewalk and pushing with their shoulders against the demonstrators in front of them. The police pushed back, and for about 10 minutes, the two sides formed a heaving scrum with metal barricades being used as fulcrums and both police officers and protesters losing their footing and tumbling to the ground. At one point, a stream of pepper spray came from the ranks of the police officers, sending protesters reeling back and rubbing their eyes. A few moments later, the march toward Trump Tower resumed, with protesters chanting, waving signs and beating drums and occasionally darting into the roadway. They were followed by police officers in cars and on foot, including one carrying an acoustic device that issued recorded warnings that blocking vehicles could lead to arrest. At least two protesters were grabbed by police officers and placed into handcuffs. When the crowd made it to Trump Tower, the police tried to herd them into a protest zone, but instead the protesters quickly moved on, with many of them heading back to Columbus Circle, where they resumed their chants.