 Donald J. Trump, making his first appearance on “Saturday Night Live” as a presidential candidate, was satirized by two well-coiffed doppelgängers, who attempted (admirably) to outboast him in matching red ties.  “Now that I’m here, this is actually the best monologue in ‘SNL’ history,” one of them declared. Mr. Trump was loudly and provocatively heckled by the actor Larry David, who repeatedly called him a “racist” from off stage. And he was lavished with praise by a fictional White House aide, who told him that “everyone loves the new laws you tweeted.” Mr. Trump, a man famed for his self-aggrandizing ways, seemed to relish the chance to show that he could take a joke — a point that he made explicitly in his opening monologue as host on the NBC show. But it was a stilted and sometimes unfunny performance, suggesting Mr. Trump is most at ease when hosting his own, seemingly never-ending TV show, rather than appearing as a guest host on somebody else’s. Mr. Trump, who previously guest hosted in 2004, appeared in a variety of skits, amid protests from Latino activists who had demanded that the network bar him from the show because of his controversial remarks about Mexican immigrants and his stated position that he would deport millions of undocumented residents. Outside the show’s studio in Midtown Manhattan, at least 200 demonstrators marched with signs in English and Spanish. Carrying placards declaring “We are the people” and “Shut it down” to the beat of drums, they also brandished large papier-mâché masks depicting Mr. Trump and held aloft such other messages as “Trump: La Cara del Racismo” and “SNL: This is how you fix your diversity problem?” “Saturday Night Live” seemed sensitive to the critique: Mr. David’s prominent, defiant cameo during the opening skit seemed designed to both acknowledge and answer the protesters. But over all, Mr. Trump was his usual, colorful and playful self: When Mr. David explained that he had heard he would be paid $5,000 to shout that Mr. Trump was a racist, Mr. Trump said he understood.  “As a businessman,” he said, “I can respect that.” Before the broadcast, the organization DeportRacism.com, a political action committee, promised on its website to pay $5,000 to anyone on the set of the show or in the studio audience who yelled out “deport racism” or “Trump is a racist” during the live show. (The group said it would divide that sum if multiple people shouted; it does not appear that anyone other than Mr. David did.) The broadcast was a family affair. Mr. Trump’s daughter, Ivanka, played herself during a sketch inside a fake Oval Office, informing her father of plans to cover the Washington Monument in casino-style gold-colored glass. The businessman trotted out plenty of bravado. After reciting a list of his attributes — rich, funny, handsome — he answered the question on everyone’s mind: “So why are you hosting ‘SNL’? Why? And the answer is I really have nothing better to do.” As the show dragged on, that seemed apparent. Mr. Trump’s sketches seemed to become increasingly less compelling. In one, he appeared as a profoundly unwelcome guest — a musician crashing a family dinner and offering a wide, somewhat menacing grin as he thrust a microphone into the hand of the man at the head of the table. Mr. Trump also appeared aware of the perils of live sketch comedy. Referring to episodes of “Saturday Night Live” past, he said: “This show has been a disaster for me.” The show concluded with a tawdry touch. Two women said to be former prostitutes stood on the stage, promoting “clown-themed political pornos.” Mr. Trump appeared at the end of the skit, vowing that he did not in any way endorse the message.  Then he turned knowingly to one of the women.  “Didn’t you used to be a brunette?” “Yeah,” she replied.  “That’s what I thought,” Mr. Trump said.