 For as much time as is spent trying to figure out what’s inside President Trump’s head, what’s on top of it has attracted less significant scrutiny but a fair bit of curiosity. On Friday, he lifted the veil. So to speak. Appearing at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Oxon Hill, Md., the president poked fun at his own mop, a tangle of twists and turns that coalesce in what, in the end, becomes an apparent full head of hair. But if you look within, the president said, not all is as it seems. As Mr. Trump was speaking, a television monitor, showing him on the stage, caught his eye. “What a nice picture that is,” he said. “Look at that. I’d love to watch that guy speak.” The crowd roared. Then, as many people would do when they suddenly realize they’re being looked at, he considered how his hair looked. He hovered his hands over his multi-angled locks, turned his back to the crowd to show off his solid-gold covering like a tarp keeping the rain out, then briefly touched the edges over his neck. Facing the crowd again, he opened up. “Oh, I try like hell to hide that bald spot, folks. I work hard at it,” he said. “It doesn’t look bad. Hey, we are hanging in, we are hanging in, we are hanging in there. Right? Together, we are hanging in.” It’s not always easy to hide bald spots, especially when you’re a president, considering one of your duties is to climb the windy stairs to Air Force One with cameras watching every step. One such video created a stir on the internet in early February, leaving no doubt that there was some heavy combing going on. It’s no secret that Mr. Trump’s hair isn’t what it once was. His longtime doctor, Dr. Harold N. Bornstein, said in early February that the president takes Propecia, a prostate-related drug that promotes hair growth. The one-a-day pill is a common treatment for male-pattern hair loss, and is better at halting hair loss than regrowing what’s already been lost. Mr. Trump’s hair frequently came up as a discussion point during the presidential campaign, but he strongly denied rumors that he would wear a wig or other fake dos. “Maybe they don’t like my hair — which is real, by the way. Look at that,” he said at a campaign event in June 2015, running his hands through his locks. He then motioned a woman onto the stage, asking her: “Is that sucker real?” She touched his hairline and said: “It’s thin, but it’s real.” In August 2015, he invited a woman in the crowd at one of his events to yank on his hair. “I don’t wear a toupee — it’s my hair,” he said. And the late-night television host Jimmy Fallon famously ran his hands through the candidate’s hair in September 2016, an act Mr. Fallon has come to see as a setback. But nothing fell out (or off).