 Hillary Clinton’s wonky immersion in policy details paid off for her when immigration came up on Thursday night during the MSNBC and Telemundo town-hall-style event in Las Vegas for the Democratic presidential contenders.  The audience was diverse, reflecting the population of Nevada, with many Latinos and immigrants whose faces have rarely been seen in earlier televised town halls.  At one point, a woman from the audience told Senator Bernie Sanders, when he was onstage, that she was an American citizen, but her Mexican husband of many years had been deported and prohibited from returning to the United States for 10 years. She was referring to provisions in a 1996 law that bar immigrants who have been in the country illegally from returning after they are deported or leave voluntarily, for at least three years and in most cases for 10 years.  Mr. Sanders responded vaguely, saying that his policies would avoid separating families. Later, when it was her turn in front of the audience, Mrs. Clinton went back to the question, clearly familiar with the legal bars, saying she would repeal them. When pressed by a moderator, José Díaz-Balart of Telemundo, Mrs. Clinton said she would send two different bills to Congress to make sure the bars were canceled. A point of law, which would probably be obscure to most Americans, had painful meaning for immigrants at this forum who had seen family members deported, and they cheered her response. Mrs. Clinton’s campaign spokesman, Brian Fallon, has said she often stays up at night, after long days of campaigning, poring over policy briefing books. At the town hall she drew on her expertise to maneuver away from a statement she made in 2014, saying children crossing the border illegally should be sent back to Central America, which has damaged her with Latinos.  She deflected a question about that by insisting she would provide lawyers for children in immigration courts in the United States; children now are not entitled to free representation in those courts. Mrs. Clinton gestured to Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate Democratic leader, who was in the front row at the event and just happens to have introduced a bill this month to provide lawyers to migrant children. That won her another round of cheers. Mrs. Clinton also pledged she would introduce a bill to overhaul the immigration system, with a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants, within 100 days of taking office.  Mr. Sanders supports a similar overhaul, but he was less specific about when he would initiate it. Some in the audience booed Mrs. Clinton when she said Mr. Sanders “wasn’t really a Democrat until he decided to run for president.”  But on immigration, an issue where Mr. Sanders has been gaining traction among Latinos, Mrs. Clinton had a good night because of those briefing books. Mrs. Clinton once thought she had a lock on Nevada, going into Saturday’s Democratic caucus voting, but the race has tightened as some Latinos, young people and working-class voters have flocked in recent weeks to Mr. Sanders.