 DES MOINES – It is a portrait of deep frustration. Jeb Bush’s campaign has 10 paid staff members in Iowa, it has made 70,380 phone calls to state Republicans and it has collected 5,000 email addresses. For all that, it has recruited just four volunteers statewide and has identified only 1,260 supporters. The metrics were shown to campaign donors in Houston this week and revealed on Thursday as part of a detailed strategy memo obtained by U.S. News &amp; World Report. Upbeat excerpts from the briefing, which called Senator Marco Rubio of Florida “a G.O.P. Obama” and Mr. Bush’s chief rival, had been previously shared with reporters. But the full 112-page memo, which has more sensitive information, surfaced the day after Mr. Bush delivered a lackluster debate performance and was upstaged by Mr. Rubio. On Saturday, both will appear with eight other Republican candidates at a forum in Des Moines. Iowa, the state with the first nominating contest, has been rocky terrain for Mr. Bush because of its large evangelical bloc and hostility to mainstream politicians. The report details how the campaign is paying less attention to Iowa than to New Hampshire and South Carolina. In the weeks before voting begins, the campaign plans to spend $1.36 million on advertising in Iowa, $5.6 million in New Hampshire and $2.7 million in South Carolina. One slide from the report claims that in the six weeks since ads for Mr. Bush began airing in New Hampshire, the share of voters who say they support him when contacted by the campaign has doubled, to 14.8 percent. It is unclear why the full strategy memo surfaced now. It may have been leaked to encourage a campaign shake-up, to communicate strategy to the Bush-affiliated “super PAC,” or to lower expectations for Mr. Bush in Iowa. The campaign has set a goal of winning 18.45 percent of the votes on caucus night, Feb. 1. It predicts total Republican turnout will be 128,800, slightly more than in 2012. Four years ago, Rick Santorum won Iowa with 29,839 votes (Mitt Romney received 29,805 votes), but it is unclear where Mr. Bush would place in the much broader field if he somehow manages to hit his goal of almost 24,000 votes. In any case, it is a long road from the 1,260 supporters of today to that magic number.