 Updated, 12:06 p.m. |  Corey Lewandowski, the campaign manager for Donald J. Trump, said on Friday that he had tried to contact the reporter who filed battery charges against him shortly after their altercation last month in hopes of clearing up the matter. Although he has not apologized for grabbing the arm of Michelle Fields, at the time a reporter for Breitbart News, Mr. Lewandowski said that he harbors no ill will toward her and that he would like to move on. Ms. Fields had suggested that an apology would have been sufficient for avoiding legal action, but Mr. Lewandowski said that she never returned his call after their March 8 encounter following a Trump news conference in Jupiter, Fla. “I made a phone call to Michelle and I never heard back, and to this day I’ve never heard back from Michelle,” Mr. Lewandowski said in an interview with CNN. “So, it’s not that we didn’t try and reach out to get to the bottom of it, it seems to be that she wanted to inject herself into making it a story, and now I’m glad the story’s over.” But Ms. Fields said on Friday that she never received a call from Mr. Lewandowski. “I have no record of him calling me,” she said. “Certainly no message.” The Palm Beach County state attorney said Thursday that it was not going to prosecute Mr. Lewandowski, because the evidence was not sufficient to make a conviction likely. Security footage showed Mr. Trump’s aide grabbing Ms. Fields by the arm when she walked past Secret Service agents and touched the candidate while trying to ask him a question. Mr. Lewandowski’s lawyer, Brad Cohen, said on Thursday after the prosecutor’s announcement that there had been a draft apology they had weighed, but that he found it unlikely that it would happen in light of Ms. Fields’s mentions of defamation lawsuits. He said that Mr. Lewandowski placed the call to Ms. Fields around 11:30 p.m. on the night of the incident and that he turned over telephone records to police verifying that the call was made.  Friends of Mr. Lewandowski said in recent weeks that he had told them after the episode that he had wanted to apologize but that Mr. Trump hadn’t wanted him to. Those friends asked for anonymity to discuss private conversations with Mr. Lewandowski. Asked about that account before the prosecutor’s announcement, a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, Hope Hicks, said first that Mr. Lewandowski had “nothing to apologize for,” then denied that he had said he wanted to apologize. Mr. Lewandowski indicated on Friday that it would be up to Ms. Fields to be in contact if she wants to discuss what happened. “I’ve reached out to Michelle and I’ve provided my phone records to show that,” he said. “And never once at any time in this incident has she ever contacted the campaign directly, and that’s the disappointing part because she had the opportunity to clear this up.”