 GREENVILLE, S.C. — In a corner of Bob Jones University, the evangelical institution where presidential candidates have long gathered to highlight their faith, Senator Ted Cruz stared into the cameras to answer the question that had almost certainly never been posed inside these halls. What was up with that porn star in your attack ad? “It happened that one of the actresses,” Mr. Cruz told reporters coyly, “had a more colorful film history than we were aware.” The remarks came a day after Mr. Cruz’s campaign pulled an ad knocking Senator Marco Rubio for his shifting positions on immigration. It had featured a mock support group for disappointed voters, with one woman calling Mr. Rubio nothing more than a “pretty face.” That woman, as Buzzfeed reported on Thursday, has appeared in several soft-core pornographic films. “She came and auditioned, and we did not realize her film history,” Mr. Cruz said. “When we did, we decided that prudence dictated pulling the ads.” He moved on. The rest of the day at Bob Jones was truer to form. Mr. Cruz assailed Mr. Rubio and Donald J. Trump for what he framed as betrayals to conservatives. Turning a common Rubio campaign attack — that Mr. Cruz is “calculated” — back on his rival, Mr. Cruz suggested his colleague had let down voters who expected him to fight against what he calls “amnesty” for undocumented immigrants. “You want to talk about ‘calculated’ — that was the essence of ‘calculated,’” Mr. Cruz said. He went on to detail Mr. Trump’s long history of support for less than conservative causes, including President Obama’s stimulus plan, expansive use of eminent domain and “Bernie Sanders-style socialized medicine.” Taking the stage to a standing ovation after his news conference, Mr. Cruz reminded the crowd of a past visit for a rally celebrating religious liberty. He noted that the next president could be charged with nominating several Supreme Court justices. “We get this election wrong, and our constitutional rights will be lost for a generation,” he warned. Mr. Cruz was the last of four presidential candidates to speak on Friday, following Mr. Rubio, Ben Carson and Jeb Bush. For Mr. Bush, who is expected to campaign with his brother George next week, the forum provided a chance to remind voters of a family name that still resonates here. “My case is, I have had a front row seat seeing how it can be done the right way,” he said, adding that his experience as a former governor of Florida made him uniquely qualified. He earned cheers when he contrasted his father and brother with Mr. Trump, taking his rival to task for “shouting out obscenities in front of children.” “I can’t imagine my dad — it’s just like, ‘Not gonna do it!’” Mr. Bush said, echoing a popular “Saturday Night Live” parody of his father. He added that his brother respected the presidency so much that he “always wore a suit into the Oval Office,” viewing the space as “hallowed ground.” The Bush family has had a fraught history at Bob Jones. As a candidate in 2000, George W. Bush came under fire for appearing here but not speaking against its ban on interracial dating. Weeks later, the ban was lifted. On Friday, the political stakes seemed lower — advertising filmography aside. Mr. Rubio, eager to move beyond his disappointing New Hampshire finish on Tuesday, held forth on the Second Amendment, border security and his Democratic opponents. “If you want to live in a socialist country, move to a socialist country,” he said, to cheers. Mr. Rubio also found occasion to clarify comments from last Saturday’s debate, when his remarks about female military service drew criticisms from Mr. Cruz. “I do not support drafting women and forcing them to be combat soldiers,” Mr. Rubio said.  Mr. Carson, meanwhile, used his time to argue that religious citizens were under constant attack. “They want to negate our faith,” he said. And hours before anyone had lamented the prevalence of profanity, or tackled the providence of casting decisions in political advertising, Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon, identified a national scourge: “the P.C. police.”