 The group attempting to persuade Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to run for president will not televise a commercial recalling the death of Mr. Biden’s first wife and his daughter after a report indicated that the vice-president was uncomfortable with the content. “We will be respecting the vice-president’s wishes,” said Brad Bauman, a spokesman for Draft Biden. The 90-second commercial, crafted by the Democratic ad man Mark Putnam, consists almost entirely of Mr. Biden recounting how he was shaped by the 1972 car accident that claimed the life of his wife and daughter and nearly killed his two sons.  The audio was derived from Mr. Biden’s Yale University commencement speech in May, which took place days before his oldest son, Beau, died of brain cancer. “By focusing on my sons, I found my redemption,” Mr. Biden says in the ad. It seemed aimed at tapping into the sympathy a grief-stricken Mr. Biden has received in the months since his son’s death and, after appearing on the New York Times website and on the Today show, quickly ricocheted across the internet.  Draft Biden was planning to air it on CNN on Tuesday, in the lead-up to the first Democratic presidential debate, and then add further air time.   But the vice-president and his family are sensitive to suggestions that they are in any way attempting to politically capitalize on the tragedies they have endured.  And after some prominent Democrats, such as former Obama strategist David Axelrod, said publicly that they found it exploitative, an unnamed source close to Mr. Biden indicated Thursday to the Los Angeles Times that that the vice-president was not comfortable with the spot.  “He has seen the ad and thinks the ad treads on sacred ground and hopes they don’t run it,” a person close to the vice-president told the paper. A spokeswoman for Mr. Biden said on Thursday night that she did not know anything more about the matter. Officials from Draft Biden said they hadn’t been instructed by anybody close to the vice-president to not air the ad and that they were only responding to what they assumed were his wishes as conveyed in the Los Angeles Times report. In an interview on Tuesday, Mr. Putnam indicated that Mr. Biden was not familiar with the ad.  Mr. Putnam said he had not talked to the vice-president in some time.   Mr. Biden himself delivered remarks on Thursday at an infrastructure conference in Washington, but said nothing about a potential presidential campaign.  But he did take care to praise Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, a liberal Democrat – “I’m a fan,” he said – who had spoken at the forum earlier in the day and with whom Mr. Biden had an eyebrow-raising lunch  in August at his residence.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.