 Fewer babies born in 2015 share a name with the current leading presidential candidates than they have in previous decades, suggesting few parents are inspired enough to name their offspring Hillary, Donald or Bernie. Even though young people — the ones of the right age to be picking out names for children — are among Senator Bernie Sanders’s most fervent supporters, the number of newborns named Bernie or Bernard (the Vermont senator’s full name) was only 160, continuing the name’s decline since 1924, according to data from the Social Security Administration released on Friday. Changes in tastes in baby names play a role too, no doubt, especially in a year when all three remaining candidates are older than in many election cycles. The candidate who fired up the most parents recently was Barack Obama. Starting in 2007, when he began his attempt to be America’s first black president, the name first appeared on the charts with five babies. Through 2009 the year he was inaugurated, more than 100 babies were named Barack. Fewer than five newborns were given that name every year before 2007. Babies named Hillary, too, were more rare in 2015 than in previous years. The name rose in popularity in the 1980s and peaked in 1992, but as Hillary Clinton took on a contentious political role in her husband’s administration, its use dropped off steeply: more than 2,500 Hillarys were born in 1992, but only 408 in 1994. The name perked up a bit in 2008, suggesting some parents may have been animated by Mrs. Clinton’s first, failed run for the presidency. But since then, the name has continued to decline, with only 136 born last year. On the Republican side, though the presumptive nominee Donald Trump brags about bringing many new voters into his party, he has not made the number of baby Americans named Donald great again: there were only 690 born last year. Barack may be an outlier for a modern era marked by polarization and political cynicism, but just 60 years ago, naming a child after the president was the thing to do. Franklin, Harry and Dwight all saw thousands more babies with those names at the beginnings of the Roosevelt, Truman and Eisenhower administrations. (Franklin and Dwight became more popular in the year that the presidents Roosevelt and Eisenhower were elected, but it still might have been expected that the current race would have influence parents’ decisions last year because this election is one of the longest ever.) Many presidents and candidates throughout history have sufficiently common names that it’s hard to tell if momentary jumps are signs of actual parental political inspiration — or just noise. Candidates named John in recent political life are practically uncountable: Kerry, Edwards, Kasich and McCain, along with Jeb Bush, whose full name is actually John Ellis Bush. Ted Cruz, George Bush and Bill Clinton, too, have names that are generally in decline as parents of baby boys tend to prefer names like Noah, Liam and Mason. Though it’s not his formal name, and though his campaign never took off, the name Jeb exercised its right to rise last year, with 37 babies, the most since 2006, when he was still governor of Florida. And he’s not the only Republican who seems to have been more inspiring in the maternity ward than the voting booth. A certain former Massachusetts governor and failed presidential candidate (whose full name is actually Willard) inspired at least a few parents: in 2012, only its fourth year on the charts, eight babies were named “Mitt.”