 Hillary Rodham Clinton has gotten several gifts from congressional Republicans before she testifies next week before the House select committee investigating the 2012 attacks in Benghazi, Libya. On Wednesday, she got yet another. Representative Richard Hanna, a moderate Republican from upstate New York, told a radio station in Utica that the House majority leader, Kevin McCarthy, told the truth when he tied Mrs. Clinton’s declining performance in opinion polls to the work of the Benghazi committee. “Sometimes the biggest sin you can commit in D.C. is to tell the truth,” Mr. Hanna told the radio station WIBX 950, when asked about Mr. McCarthy’s remarks. “This may not be politically correct, but I think that there was a big part of this investigation that was designed to go after people and an individual, Hillary Clinton,” Mr. Hanna added in the interview with the show’s host, Bill Keeler. Mr. Hanna is not a member of the select committee, which is being led by Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina. Mrs. Clinton is scheduled to testify before the committee next Thursday. Mr. Hanna’s remarks were noted by the liberal website ThinkProgress.com on Wednesday night, and the Clinton campaign quickly seized on them. “House Republicans aren’t even shy anymore about admitting that the Benghazi Committee is a partisan farce,” said Brian Fallon, Mrs. Clinton’s press secretary. “After failing to produce any new information on the tragic 2012 attacks at Benghazi despite a 17-month investigation, John Boehner has reportedly urged the committee to shift its focus to Hillary Clinton’s emails in an ongoing effort to try to hurt her politically,” Mr. Fallon said. “Hillary Clinton will still attend next week’s hearing, but at this point, Trey Gowdy’s inquiry has zero credibility left.” Last weekend, a Republican investigator who was fired from the committee alleged that resources were trained specifically on investigating Mrs. Clinton and away from the events surrounding the Sept. 11, 2012, terrorist attacks on a United States diplomatic outpost in Benghazi. Mr. McCarthy’s comments about the committee and Mrs. Clinton helped drive him out of the race to replace Mr. Boehner as speaker of the House. It was during the work of the committee that Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state became known. She has said she violated no laws and sent no information that was classified at that time, but has called her decision to use the private server a “mistake.”