 Ben Carson has opened a double-digit lead over Donald J. Trump in Iowa, according to a new poll released on Monday that reinforces recent evidence that the crucial caucus state is getting away from the billionaire developer. According to a survey from Monmouth University, 32 percent of likely Republican caucusgoers support Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon, while 18 percent back Mr. Trump. The rival Republicans were tied in the same poll in August and while Mr. Trump led there for months, two other polls last week showed Mr. Carson overtaking him. “Trump’s support has eroded in a number of key areas, with the beneficiary being another outside candidate,” said Patrick Murray, director of the independent Monmouth University Polling Institute The Monmouth poll, which had a margin of error of five percentage points, showed that Mr. Carson has twice as much support as Mr. Trump among evangelical Christian voters, topping him by a margin of 36 percent to 18 percent. Mr. Trump has sought to appeal to religious voters by bringing his bible to rallies and expounding on how much he loves Christmas. He has also raised questions about the faith of Mr. Carson, who is a Seventh-Day Adventist. While Mr. Carson has long appealed to social conservatives, Monday’s poll shows that he has overtaken Mr. Trump with Republican voters who consider themselves to be moderate or liberal. He continues to be stronger than Mr. Trump with women in Iowa and now tops him with men. Mr. Trump, who promotes his polling numbers constantly among the top reasons he is qualified to be president, has been in denial about his recent erosion in Iowa. Over the weekend he pointed to big crowds at his event, accused Mr. Carson of relying on a “super PAC” to gain ground there and suggested that polls that showed him losing there were biased against him. The race in Iowa, which kicks off the nominating contests in February, remains fluid as less than a fifth of likely caucusgoers say they are not completely set on their choice. That represents good news for the rest of the crowded field that trails Mr. Carson and Mr. Trump. Senator Ted Cruz and Senator Marco Rubio are currently tied at 10 percent, followed by Jeb Bush with 8 percent.