 ORLANDO, Fla. — Dystopic. Hard to watch. Terrifying. Hillary Clinton’s advisers didn’t mince words as her campaign watched Donald J. Trump accept the Republican Party’s nomination in Cleveland on Thursday night and his promise to end the “crime and violence that afflicts our nation.” But mostly, Mrs. Clinton’s team felt a single emotion: pressure. “The only thing standing between Donald Trump and the White House … is us,” the campaign posted on Instagram. As the campaign prepares for the start of the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia on Monday, donors, supporters and elected officials say the vision Mr. Trump presented for the nation raised the stakes on Mrs. Clinton to prevail in November. “America is better than Donald Trump,” Mrs. Clinton’s campaign chairman, John Podesta, said in a statement. He said that in Philadelphia, Democrats planned to “focus on issues, not anger” and “offer a positive vision for the future based on lifting America up, not tearing Americans down.” Mrs. Clinton had another interpretation of a Republican convention that largely focused on attacking her. “It was kind of perversely flattering,” she told a crowd of more than 3,000 at a rally in Tampa on Friday evening. In a jab at Mr. Trump, she showed solidarity with his main rival for the nomination. “I mean, I never thought I’d say these words, but Ted Cruz was right,” she said, and then quoted from Mr. Cruz’s speech on Wednesday night: “Vote your conscience.” Her words might serve as some comfort for anxious Democrats who watched Mr. Trump’s speech unfurl amid Mrs. Clinton’s declining poll numbers, which have shown a majority of voters say they do not trust or like the former secretary of state. The full force of Mrs. Clinton’s supporters outside the campaign sprung to present her as the human shield to a Trump presidency. “Now more than ever, we must put all our support behind Hillary Clinton,” Stephanie Schriock, president of Emily’s List, a “super PAC” that supports female candidates. On Friday, Mrs. Clinton was doing her best to appear to be the anti-Trump. In Orlando, Fla., she met with the families of the victims of the shooting last month at Pulse, a gay nightclub, and sat down for a round-table discussion with local officials and emergency medical workers. Mrs. Clinton also paid her respects at a memorial for the 49 people who were killed in the attack. “We need to acknowledge and be very clear who this attack targeted — the Latino, L.G.B.T. community was the target that was most severely impacted by this terrible attack,” Mrs. Clinton said at the intimate event at the Holden Heights Community Center. After Mr. Trump spoke for 75 minutes on Thursday night, often growing animated and raising his voice, Mrs. Clinton she spoke little at her event on Friday, mostly listening and nodding as a panel of seven participants talked about violence against transgender women of color, discrimination against Muslims, gun control and other issues affecting their community. “I want to thank you for not politicizing this and for waiting until we were ready,” said Patty Sheehan, an Orlando city commissioner. Mrs. Clinton then, perhaps inadvertently, used her campaign slogan, Stronger Together, to portray Mr. Trump as divisive. “We are stronger together,” she told the panelists.