 Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont reiterated his commitment Tuesday to not personally attack Hillary Clinton but said that he would continue to point out her ties to big commercial banks. In an interview aboard a private plane heading to rallies in Minnesota, Mr. Sanders said he believed that he could win the nomination and that he was surprised that Mrs. Clinton didn’t appear to get  why people question her past financial ties to Wall Street. “I am surprised that Hillary Clinton does not understand why so many people have strong concerns about her receiving many, many hundreds of thousands of dollars from Goldman Sachs and from many other financial interests,” Mr. Sanders said. “And I think people don’t understand why she doesn’t see the concerns that Americans have when you receive millions of dollars in speaking fees from Wall Street, the most powerful entity in America,” he added. “You know people can draw their own conclusions, but that is just simply a fact.” Mr. Sanders also said that he was happy with the tone of his campaign and that he would continue to resist pressure to personally attack Mrs. Clinton. He added that he believed his strategy was working because polls used to put him 40 to 50 points behind Mrs. Clinton, and now they showed him running neck and neck with her in Iowa. “We are now nip and tuck with Hillary Clinton,” Mr. Sanders said. “The kind of positive campaign that we are running is not just because I think it is the moral and right thing to do. I also believe it is good politics. I believe that the American people, the people of Iowa are sick and tired of ugly, negative ads and vicious personal attacks.” Mr. Sanders said he intended to win, but noted that Mrs. Clinton would be better than a Republican in the White House. “I would be most comfortable with me as president,” Mr. Sanders said. “But, if the choice is between right-wing Republicans who want to cut Social Security, voucherize Medicare, make massive cuts in Medicaid, give huge tax breaks to billionaires and refuse to even acknowledge the reality of climate change, the choice between those candidates and Hillary Clinton is pretty obvious. She is the far superior candidate.”