 WASHINGTON — President Obama will meet in the Oval Office on Wednesday with Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, offering presidential face-time just days before voting in the presidential campaign begins next week, White House officials said Tuesday evening. A statement by Mr. Obama’s spokesman said there would be “no formal agenda” for the meeting between the two men. Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Obama and Mr. Sanders first discussed a meeting when the Democratic candidate attended the Congressional Holiday Ball at the White House in December. But the White House meeting for Mr. Sanders comes at a critical time, as he seeks to defeat Hillary Clinton, the president’s former secretary of state, in the Iowa caucuses on Monday. Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton have met several times in the last year, most recently during a private luncheon at the White House last month. But administration officials had struggled to say when Mr. Obama last met one-on-one with Mr. Sanders.  In an interview with Chuck Todd on NBC’s “Meet the Press” this month, Denis McDonough, the White House chief of staff, asserted that the president “meets with all of our senators, including Senator Sanders,” but declined to say specifically when the last meeting had been. “You know, I haven’t racked them up, Chuck, on how many — on how many times he’s seen who — but he has seen Senator Sanders, both with the Senate Democratic Caucus and privately,” Mr. McDonough said. The president has said he remains neutral in the Democratic primary contest, even as he has repeatedly expressed great admiration for Mrs. Clinton, whom he defeated in 2008 and then selected as his top diplomat. In an interview with Politico over the weekend, Mr. Obama again heaped praise on Mrs. Clinton, calling her “more experienced than any non-vice-president has ever been who aspires to this office.” He praised Mr. Sanders in the interview, too, saying that the Vermont senator was “just letting loose” because he entered the race with few expectations about how he would fare against Mrs. Clinton. But some people interpreted the Politico interview as an attempt by Mr. Obama to tilt the scales in favor of Mrs. Clinton, in part because of the language he used to describe her. He called her a “good, smart, tough person who cares deeply about this country” and said that Mr. Sanders’s success was in part a result of the fact that so few people knew about him before this race. “You’re always looking at the bright, shiny object that people don’t, haven’t seen before. That’s a disadvantage to her,” Mr. Obama said. “Bernie is somebody who — although I don’t know as well because he wasn’t, obviously, in my administration — has the virtue of saying exactly what he believes, and great authenticity, great passion, and is fearless. His attitude is, ‘I got nothing to lose.’ ” Jeff Weaver, Mr. Sanders’s campaign manager, declined to say what topics Mr. Sanders and President Obama would discuss. “This is not about the campaign,” Mr. Weaver said. “This is about the senator talking with the president about important issues facing the country.”