 Over the course of seven years in office, President Obama has periodically invited columnists and other opinion leaders to the White House for off-the-record discussions that sometimes do not stay all that off the record. But when he convened such a session this week to defend his strategy against the Islamic State and terrorism, he reached out beyond the usual high priesthood of foreign policy journalism to include younger writers with new media audiences. Among those who met with Mr. Obama on Tuesday in the Roosevelt Room of the White House were Jake Horowitz, founder and editor in chief of Mic, an online news site for younger readers, and Max Fisher, the foreign editor of Vox, another new-generation news organization. Also there was Matt Bai, a columnist for Yahoo! News, which has gotten two on-the-record interviews with Mr. Obama this year as well. The White House has increasingly included journalists representing newer media as part of a larger strategy to get its message out to a variety of audiences that might not read traditional newspapers and magazines. During his recent trip to Ukraine, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. posted on Medium and photographs were put on Instagram. Some of the news organizations represented at Mr. Obama’s session did not exist when he first took office. Mr. Horowitz and a friend decided to create Mic in 2011 to reach young people because mainstream news organizations “overlook us or assume we only want to read fluff,” according to their website. Started in a Harlem apartment with three employees, Mic today claims 22 million monthly readers. Mr. Obama still included some of the traditionally influential foreign policy and national security writers in the Tuesday meeting. Among them were David Ignatius of The Washington Post; Thomas L. Friedman and Carol Giacomo of The New York Times; Jeffrey Goldberg, James Fallows and Peter Beinart of The Atlantic; and Fred Kaplan of Slate. Derek Chollet, a former White House and Pentagon official under Mr. Obama who is now at the German Marshall Fund of the United States and writing a book on foreign policy, was included as well.