 Updated, 3:11 p.m. | SEATTLE — Hillary Clinton vowed to “defeat terrorism and radical jihadism around the world” Tuesday as she awoke on the West Coast to news of the terrorist attacks in Brussels. But Mrs. Clinton also urged caution and a steady hand. “It’s unrealistic to say we’re going to completely shut down our borders to everyone,” she said on a live interview by phone with NBC’s “Today” show. “That would stop commerce, for example, and that’s not in anybody’s interest.” Mrs. Clinton called to “reaffirm our solidarity with our European friends” and to support NATO “as they struggle with how best to defeat the terrorist threat they face.” The affirmation of the organization came after the leading Republican candidate, Donald J. Trump, told The Washington Post editorial board that the United States should rethink its role in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, a proposition Mrs. Clinton said would be a “grave error.” “We need steady, strong, smart minds and hands in the White House and the Situation Room to deal with the problems that we face around the world,” she told CNN’s Wolf Blitzer, without directing mentioning Mr. Trump. “I believe I have the track record, the experience and the temperament to do just that.” She did not directly respond to Mr. Trump’s criticism that she is “low energy” and lacks the stamina to be commander in chief. “I really don’t want to respond to his constant stream of insults,” she told CNN before she began a day of campaigning around Seattle on Tuesday. “I find it really, at this point absurd.” On the day that Arizona, Idaho and Utah hold their Democratic nominating contests, Mrs. Clinton had to address foreign policy with a strong response to the deadly blasts at the Brussels airport and metro stations, an event that was altering the conversation of the presidential campaign, which has morphed in recent days to feel more like a contest between Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Trump. “The terrorists are trying to undermine the democratic values that are at the root of our way of life,” Mrs. Clinton said. “We cannot let them succeed. So we have to, you know, intensify our efforts to keep America safe and to work with our friends and allies to help them be safe as well from these threats.” But she also cautioned against tactics like waterboarding (Mr. Trump has spoken in favor of such barred interrogation techniques). “Our country’s most experienced and bravest military leaders will tell you that torture is not effective,” she said. “It does put our own soldiers, and increasingly our own civilians, at risk.” Mrs. Clinton will arrive in Silicon Valley later on Tuesday for fund-raisers and a campaign event on Wednesday, when she will inevitably face questions about the conflict between Apple and the F.B.I. after the San Bernardino, Calif., shootings last year and whether law enforcement officials should have access to the attacker’s iPhone. She told CNN there was “no getting around” the toughening of  “our surveillance, surveillance and soft targets with greater police presence,” but declined to say definitively if that meant allowing additional surveillance of private communications.  “I just can’t believe that we can’t find a reasonable path forward here,” Mrs. Clinton said. “Both to follow up on attacks and most importantly to protect them — and that, you know, the privacy and safety of people who can lose their lives or be injured in an attack has to be weighed against the privacy and safety of our information.”