 Democrats offered five separate responses to President Trump’s State of the Union address, differing in content and tone but united in their disapproval of Mr. Trump. Representative Joseph P. Kennedy III of Massachusetts gave the official Democratic rebuttal on Tuesday night, in which he portrayed Mr. Trump as a divisive figure. Elizabeth Guzman, a delegate in Virginia’s State Assembly, delivered another Democratic Party response in Spanish.  Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont followed with his own response. Donna Edwards, a former congresswoman from Maryland, spoke on behalf of the Working Families Party, a minor party with several state-based chapters. And Representative Maxine Waters of California spoke on Black Entertainment Television on Wednesday night. The New York Times fact-checked Mr. Trump’s address in real time. Now, here’s an assessment of the various Democrats’ responses.  Mr. Kennedy is likely referring to a 2014 study from the left-leaning Economic Policy Institute. It found that compensation for chief executives at the top 350 American firms was about 300 times more than their employees.  To start, that figure is out of date. The institute’s most recent study on the matter, released in 2017, found a smaller — but still high — ratio of 271 to 1.  Also, the employment compensation research site PayScale conducted a 2016 survey across 168 companies with revenues over $1 billion. That research found executive cash compensation was, on average, about 70 times the median salary of their employees, though some broached the 300 to 1 mark.  Looking at wages alone — and not counting other forms of compensation like bonuses or stock options — chief executives made an average salary of $194,000 in 2016, about four times what the average worker made, according to even broader data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  It’s also worth noting that the pay gap between top executives and their employees is generally understood to be significantly wider today than ratios in the 1960s and 1970s. Mr. Trump repeatedly has said he supported health care protections for pre-existing conditions, though he also has backed efforts to undermine them.  In the legislative debate over reforming health care, five major Republican proposals sought last year to repeal the Affordable Care Act.  Two would have retained the health care law’s prohibitions on insurers that seek to impose higher costs on patients with pre-existing medical conditions. The three others, including one drafted by Republican Senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, would allow states to decide whether to enforce the prohibitions. All five proposals have either been rejected or are stalled in Congress.  In a Twitter post, Mr. Trump said in September that he “would not sign Graham-Cassidy if it did not include coverage of pre-existing conditions,” but erroneously added, “it does!” No major health care proposals have included an explicit tax because of advancing age. What Ms. Guzman is likely referring to are price limits for insurers. Two of the Republican proposals sought to retain the health care law’s restrictions on charging older Americans more. The other three wanted to let states to waive the requirement. It is inaccurate to call the easing of restrictions “a tax,” as it would be insurers — and not the government — that imposes and collects charges.  The change in “age rating” would not apply to Americans 65 and older who are covered by Medicare, nor those between 50 to 64 who have employer-sponsor insurance.  Mr. Sanders is referring to one of the Republican bills that sought to repeal the Affordable Care Act. (The bill failed by a vote of 51 to 49.) According to the Congressional Budget Office, it would have insured 32 million fewer people in 2026 than those who were covered under the health care law.  It’s worth noting, however, that not every person among the 32 million would have been “thrown” off health care systems. Though many would have lost coverage through the repeal of Medicaid expansion, others would have simply chosen to forgo purchasing insurance in that market.  Ms. Edwards is right that most of the benefits of the tax law signed by Mr. Trump in December will accrue to the wealthy and very wealthy. But middle class and low-income Americans will get a tax cut too.  The Tax Policy Center, a research group, found that taxes will be reduced for every income group this year. And the 40th to 60th percentile of American households by income will receive an average tax cut of about $900 through 2025. Personal tax cuts expire after that point, though Congress may choose to extend them.  But the highest income brackets do stand to benefit the most. In 2018, the top 1 percent of earners will receive about 20.5 percent of the benefits, increasing to 25.3 percent in 2025 and 83 percent in 2027. The United States had never formally ratified the Trans-Pacific Partnership with 11 other nations before Mr. Trump abandoned the trade deal. But his administration has been renegotiating the terms of the North American Free Trade Agreement for six months and the trade agreement with South Korea since January.  And Mr. Trump has not yet proposed withdrawing from any of the other ongoing trade deals the United States has with 19 other countries.  Natalia Gutierrez Avila contributed from Mexico City.