 While much of the Democratic Party’s establishment is already in Hillary Rodham Clinton’s corner, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s decision not to run for president was a blow to those who were betting that he was going to get in the race and who were ready to support him. Who are the biggest losers? Draft Biden: The “super PAC” that was pushing Mr. Biden to run had become increasingly invested in his cause in recent weeks, but on Wednesday they were left offering thanks and hope for the future. “While the vice president has decided not to run, we know that over the next year he will stand up for all Americans and articulate a vision for America’s future that will leave no one behind,” said Will Pierce, executive director of Draft Biden 2016. The Firefighters’ Union: After having told Mrs. Clinton not to expect their endorsement, the head of the International Association of Fire Fighters said on Tuesday that they were expecting Mr. Biden to run and and that they were ready to back him. “Our union is preparing as if the vice president is going to announce his candidacy,” Harold Schaitberger, president of the group, told CNN. Backing a Biden run would have been the second time in recent presidential elections that the union’s choice didn’t work out: In 2008, it backed the failed campaign of Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut.  The Prognosticators: Several strategists and sources close to Mr. Biden’s thinking were sure that he was planning to seek the White House. One of the more public soothsayers this week was Representative Brendan F. Boyle, the Pennsylvania Democrat who said that someone “close” to Mr. Biden had signaled that he was running. On Wednesday, Mr. Boyle said that something must have changed. — US Rep Brendan Boyle (@RepBrendanBoyle) October 21, 2015  The Obama Loyalists: Some of the staff members who were with President Obama from the beginning were pulling for Mr. Biden to run on the basis that he was best suited to protect the president’s legacy. After the vice president’s emotional interview with Stephen Colbert last month, Jon Favreau, Mr. Obama’s former speechwriter, called for Mr. Biden to throw his hat in the ring. With Mr. Biden deciding to sit the race out, Mr. Favreau said on Wednesday that the rest of the debates would be an “infomercial” for Mrs. Clinton to show how presidential she is. — Jon Favreau (@jonfavs) October 21, 2015 