 Updated, 2:12 p.m. | NASHUA, N.H. – Donald J. Trump declared victory in his standoff with Fox News on Friday, telling a packed hotel ballroom in New Hampshire that he had shown the world just how tough he could be when challenged. “When somebody doesn’t treat you properly, you gotta be tough, you gotta be strong,” Mr. Trump said, adding: “That goes for the country. When you’re not treated properly, you have to stick up for your rights.” And having vanquished – by his account – one adversary in the news media, Mr. Trump reopened his feud with another influential conservative-leaning institution, New Hampshire’s Union Leader newspaper. Mr. Trump has denounced the paper repeatedly since it endorsed Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey for president, but on Friday he let loose with a new and more intense stream of invective against The Union Leader and its publisher, Joseph W. McQuaid. Mr. McQuaid, he said, was a “bad guy,” “a liar,” “a psycho” and a “dirty dog.” He charged, not for the first time, that Mr. McQuaid had sought to extract advertising and political favors in exchange for an endorsement. Mr. McQuaid has consistently denied such assertions. “Is there a lawyer in the house? Why don’t we sue this dope?” Mr. Trump said.  To a member of the audience who seemed to volunteer, Mr. Trump asked:  “You want to sue him for me? Will you give me a good deal?” As he did in his clash with Fox News, Mr. Trump described his willingness to take on the media as proof of his readiness for the presidency. “Here’s the beauty of me,” Mr. Trump began. Referring to Mr. McQuaid, he said, “When we have a dirty dog like that, at least I have a microphone where I can speak back.” For a Republican candidate to attack The Union Leader at all, let alone repeatedly and with such venom, is extraordinary in New Hampshire politics. The paper is considered one of the two print outlets with the greatest sway over conservative voters. (The other, The Boston Herald, has also endorsed Mr. Christie.)   Reached by email, Mr. McQuaid said that he had “not been paying attention to Trump today,” and that the attacks on him and the paper were already old material. “Psycho is a new one,” Mr. McQuaid wrote. The rest, he said, “is familiar and we have responded to it numerous times.” In a followup email, Mr. McQuaid suggested that Mr. Trump may have “some psychological issues.”  “He seems to be obsessive-compulsive when it comes to Megyn Kelly of Fox,” he said, referring to the debate moderator with whom Mr. Trump has clashed. “I’m happy to join her on the list!” Mr. Trump spoke only in passing about the substance of the Republican debate on Thursday night, pronouncing it a setback for Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, his most formidable opponent in the Iowa caucuses. Mr. Cruz, he said, “got really pummeled last night,” even though the other candidates “didn’t even mention that he was born in Canada.” Mr. Trump, who has led every poll in New Hampshire for months by a wide margin, stressed in his speech that the state was critical to his presidential campaign, and urged his audience to turn out and vote on Feb. 9. He would not have flown back to the East Coast from Iowa overnight, Mr. Trump said, if the state were any less important.  “I love you,” he said. “I am so glad I made this ridiculous trip.”