 PALATINE, Ill. — Gov. John Kasich of Ohio suggested on Wednesday that the Republican contest was now a three-man race among Donald J. Trump, Ted Cruz and himself, casting aside Marco Rubio as he talked about his competition. Mr. Kasich, at a town-hall-style meeting in Lisle, Ill., told the crowd that about half the delegates were still up for grabs, and that he, Mr. Trump and Mr. Cruz were “dead even going into the last half of this whole match.” “So don’t be thinking it’s over yet,” Mr. Kasich said. Mr. Kasich, unlike Mr. Rubio, has yet to win a nominating contest. Later, speaking to reporters after a town-hall-style meeting here in Palatine, Mr. Kasich insisted he would win his home state on Tuesday. Illinois also votes that day, and Mr. Kasich spent Wednesday campaigning in the Chicago area. “Everybody is saying now, except for a handful of people, that John Kasich is surging,” Mr. Kasich said, without specifying who holds that view. “And I’m beginning to surge because for the first time in this campaign, people are finally beginning to hear my message.” The Kasich campaign has embraced an NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released Tuesday that found Mr. Trump, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Kasich and Mr. Rubio bunched up among likely voters in states that had not already held their nominating contests before that day. “I don’t mean to say anything to disparage Marco,” Mr. Kasich told reporters. “But what I will say is, it’s starting to turn our way.” He also made clear that he was not suggesting that Mr. Rubio leave the race. “I would never do what other people say – somebody ought to drop out or not drop out,” he said. “I’m just talking to you about what the numbers look like today, because anybody who’s in this race should decide on their own what they want to do.” As for Mr. Kasich’s path forward, his analysis was strikingly rosy, given his performances to date. His best showing on Tuesday was in Michigan, where he had spent considerable time. But he still failed to win second place, finishing slightly behind Mr. Cruz and well behind the state’s winner, Mr. Trump. Mr. Kasich ended up claiming about 24 percent of the vote, and he won 43 percent of those who decided which candidate to vote for in the last week, according to exit polls. Mr. Kasich portrayed his finish in Michigan as an impressive achievement, citing earlier poll numbers that had put his support in the single digits. He said he “went from obliterated, where everybody counted me out,” to effectively tying Mr. Cruz. “They call it the Kasich surge, and I would agree with that,” he said. If the primary had been a day later, he said, “God knows what would have happened.”