 Donald J. Trump Jr. said on Wednesday that he inadvertently gave an interview to a white nationalist radio host who has been promoting it on his website as a major exclusive that will air this weekend.  The younger Mr. Trump, who goes by Don and who has been a top surrogate for his father, told Bloomberg Politics that the interview took place when the radio host in question, James Edwards, slipped onto a phone line along with someone else with whom he was speaking.   The comments from Mr. Trump came after a day of uncertainty, as aides to his father’s presidential campaign said they were unaware of such an interview, particularly since Mr. Edwards said he had been at a rally for Donald J. Trump in Memphis recently, giving the impression the interview had taken place there.  Mr. Edwards, host of the Political Cesspool show, said on his website that he received press credentials for a Trump rally in Memphis and had a 20-minute interview with the younger Mr. Trump, which he will air on Saturday. The show has been cited by groups such as the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center for fomenting hate and promoting white ascension, as well as anti-Semitic views.  On his website, Mr. Edwards showed himself in the press area at the Trump rally and also speaking with some reporters.  In the Bloomberg interview, Mr. Trump said that he had been on a phone line with a different radio interviewer and that Mr. Edwards suddenly joined the conversation. “He was brought into the interview without my knowledge,” Mr. Trump said. “Had I known, I would have obviously never done an interview with him.”  He added, “The way the media is spinning it is as though I voluntarily spoke with this guy and I knew his background, rather than I was essentially duped by him being in the room and asking an inane question where I clearly could not have ever known what or whom I was talking to. It’s very unfair, and typical of the way much of the media has handled us.” The episode is the latest flap involving white nationalists for the elder Mr. Trump, who has retweeted accounts connected to white supremacists and who has been under fire for initially declining over the weekend to disavow the support of David Duke, a former Ku Klux Klan leader. Earlier Wednesday, before the younger Mr. Trump’s comments, a spokeswoman for the campaign said that it did not personally vet each person applying for rally credentials and that nearly 200 people attended the Memphis rally. The spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, added: “The campaign had no knowledge of his personal views and strongly condemns them. Donald Trump Jr. was not in attendance, and although he served as a surrogate for his father on several radio programs over the past week, to his knowledge and that of the campaign, did not participate in an interview with this individual.”  But Mr. Edwards insisted on his website that the interview took place and that he is being mistreated by the media.  “My show, The Political Cesspool, promotes a proud, paleoconservative Christian worldview, and we reject media descriptions of our work as ‘white supremacist,’ ‘pro-slavery’ and other such scare words,” he wrote. “As I clearly wrote in yesterday’s article, in no way should anyone interpret our press credentialing and subsequent interview with Donald Trump, Jr. as any kind of endorsement by the Trump campaign.” 