 SIOUX CITY, Iowa – Donald J. Trump pledged to redouble his efforts in Iowa on Tuesday, sounding stunned and chastened that he had lost the lead in the state. “What the hell are you people doing to me?” he asked in both mock and real exasperation. It was Mr. Trump’s first visit to Iowa since dropping to second place in state polls last week, after dominating the Republican presidential field for months.  He said he had rejected the “political geniuses” advising him to cut his losses in a state whose large evangelical bloc, along with female voters, have been moving to Ben Carson, the retired neurosurgeon. “I’m sticking with you people,’’ Mr. Trump told a crowd of more than 2,000, vowing to spend “millions” and return often.  “I love you all,’’ he said. “I mean – you laugh — but I love you all.  I’m going to stay here.  We’re going to work really hard.’’ It was a remarkable performance, a display of self-deprecation and a joshing humility from a man whose essence is the opposite. By turns, he hectored Iowans for letting him slip into second; he taunted them with the fact that past caucus winners failed to capture the nomination; and he egged on supporters to work hard for him.   Rather than taking offense, the crowd filling a high school gym in this city in western Iowa, on the Missouri River, laughed and whooped.  With Mr. Carson leading by double digits in the latest polls, Mr. Trump abandoned an earlier claim that the surveys were unscientific. He has moved from denial and anger to bargaining, looking for a route back to the top. “Will you get the numbers up, Iowa, please,’’ he pleaded. “This is ridiculous.’’  On Tuesday, for the first time in months, Mr. Trump also slipped to second in a national survey.  A New York Times/CBS News poll gave Mr. Carson a narrow lead, 26 percent to 22 percent, within the margin of error. Mr. Carson led among women and by 20 percentage points among evangelical voters, a large part of the Republican base. Mr. Trump, who seemed to raise doubts about Mr. Carson’s Seventh-day Adventist faith last week, did not bring up that matter on Tuesday. There are only about 4,600 Adventists in Iowa, according to a 2010 survey, and mainstream evangelicals have no problem with the faith, said Kedron Bardwell, a political scientist at Simpson College in Iowa with a specialty in religion.  “It as an unspoken tenet of Iowa nice that you should not denigrate a neighbor’s faith,’’ he said. “The danger for Trump is that Iowa voters start to see his irritability in the face of challenges as a sign of insecurity rather than strength.’’ Mr. Trump made a kind of playful threat that if Iowa Republicans did not unite behind him, and the evangelical bloc chooses the caucus winner as in the past two cycles, Iowa would continue to be marginalized in the eyes of the national party.  “The person who won Iowa did not get the nomination,’’ Mr. Trump reminded the crowd of the 2008 and 2012 caucuses. “I want to take away some of your mustard, you understand. So people, do me a favor: let me win Iowa.’’  He floated new ways to undermine Mr. Carson, who he will stand next to at the third Republican debate on Wednesday, in Boulder, Colo. Rather than reprising a nasty bit about Mr. Carson being asleep for the news he was now leading, Mr. Trump said that because a “super PAC” was doing much of the neurosurgeon’s field organizing, he was not his own man. “The people running that super PAC,’’ Mr. Trump said, “those are the bosses.’’ In interviews, Carson supporters say they are drawn to his calming personality.  Many recoil from Mr. Trump’s divisiveness.  Norma Adema, who wore a white Trump volunteer T-shirt at the rally, acknowledged it bothered her that Mr. Trump “doesn’t have a filter.’’ Asked her view of Mr. Carson, she said, “Oh, I love Ben Carson.’’ In an interview before he took the stage, Mr. Trump was less confident in projecting victory in the state than he was a few moments later before the crowd. “It’s possible I’ll come in second or something, which is fine,’’ he said.  “But I think we’re going to give it a strong shot.’’   He had arrived through a side door, unable to see into the gym, and he asked aides how many were waiting for him. “Two thousand,’’ one said.  Mr. Trump looked pleased. “We’re judging it mostly by the crowds,’’ he said. “The crowds are so much bigger than anybody else’s.’’ The challenge for Mr. Trump all along in Iowa has been converting supporters, many of them newcomers to political activism, to turn out for him at the caucuses on Feb. 1.   A chairwoman of his Iowa campaign, Tana Goertz, warmed up the crowd and asked how many would bring someone to a caucus, traditionally a ritual attracting mainly party stalwarts.     Only a smattering of hands were raised.  Mr. Trump has one of Iowa’s best organizers of grass-roots conservatives behind his state effort, Chuck Laudner. There are a dozen paid members of his field staff, more than any other Republican candidate.  At his large rallies, volunteers harvest contact information.  The campaign recently began training supporters how to caucus. “Laudner is a master organizer,’’ said a strategist for a rival Republican candidate. “If they keep drawing a few hundred in places like Storm Lake, Atlantic, Carroll, Manchester and places like this, they can absolutely pull off a win here.’’ “Another way to look at it is this,’’ the strategist added. “If he’s dropping in the polls, but comes in strong at the end and wins Iowa, look out. And it could happen.’’ Recent history is not on Mr. Trump’s side.  No candidate who lost a polling lead in either of the last two cycles claimed the top spot again. Mr. Trump barely mentioned the caucuses at previous Iowa rallies, and he often neglected the crucial task of asking attendees for their votes.   But on Tuesday he was a different candidate.  “Will you — I refuse to say get your asses in gear,’’ he said. “I will not say it.  I will not say it.  I will not say it because I don’t want to use anything that’s even a little bit off.  So will you people do me a favor and work with my people and go out on Feb. 1 and vote and give us a victory?” He repeated his commitment to fight for the state despite the harsh polling news.  “I’m going to work hard in Iowa,’’ he said. “I’m not leaving Iowa.  I’m not.’’  “Now if I lose Iowa,’’ he ended his speech, “I will never speak to you people again.’’