 As Jeb Bush mulled a bid for the presidency last year, his annual income reached new heights — as did his charitable giving. Mr. Bush, the former Florida governor, and his wife, Columba, reported income of $8.3 million in 2014, the highest total over the 34 years of income tax returns he has made public. At the same time, the Bushes gave $308,734 to charity, nearly tripling their giving from a year earlier. The figures were included in a 2014 tax return, as part of a trove of documents released by Mr. Bush’s campaign on Thursday, including medical records and fund-raising totals. For Mr. Bush — who made no secret of his desire to expand his wealth after leaving office in 2007, saying to friends that his finances had suffered during his time in government — the tax return provides a telling snapshot: His bid to return to public life followed a banner year financially. Mr. Bush’s net worth has grown sharply since he left office, climbing to at least $19 million from $1.3 million, largely powered by entrepreneurial pursuits and speaking engagements. Mr. Bush’s income increased in 2014 from the prior year’s $7.3 million, even as the amount he received from paid speeches declined. He made $1.68 million from speaking engagements, down from $2.1 million in 2013, according to information released earlier by the campaign.  Mr. Bush reported business income of $7.1 million in 2014, up from the $5.8 million he reported a year earlier. That income includes his speaking income, as well as about $2 million per year he made consulting for Barclays. Still, the tax return does not account specifically for all of the business income, leaving some sources unknown. This year, Mr. Bush sold off stakes in two businesses as he considered a run for office. He sold his consultancy, Jeb Bush &amp; Associates, to Jeb Bush Jr., his son and business partner. The elder Mr. Bush “had been busy growing J.B.A. into a successful business for nearly a decade, and his income has been steadily increasing each year,” a campaign spokeswoman, Allie Brandenburger, said in an email when asked about Mr. Bush’s rising business income. “2014 was another successful year. Jeb also received increased income due to deferred compensation.” Mr. Bush and his wife paid $3.3 million in federal taxes last year, an effective tax rate of 40 percent.