 “Are there a lot of apiaries here?”  That was what Bill Clinton asked a man who was working behind the counter Thursday at a stall at the Cedar Rapids Downtown Farmers’ Market in Iowa. The 42nd president disappointed reporters when he would not respond to attacks by Donald J. Trump. “He says a lot of things. I have no response,” a disciplined Mr. Clinton said.  Asked again about Mr. Trump, Mr. Clinton told reporters, according to a pool report, “If he wins the Republican nomination, we’ll have plenty of time to talk,” but, he added, he has “no interest in getting involved in their politics or doing anything except trying to help Hillary.” Nevertheless, Mr. Clinton appeared in classic form, shaking every hand, posing for photos and espousing  his thoughts on topics like renewable energy in the Caribbean and airborne allergies.  “It’s crazy,” Mr. Clinton told a couple of Iowans. Puerto Rico “could literally be 100-percent energy independent with the sun and the wind,” he said. He continued to tell potential caucusgoers other useful facts, like: “Most Caribbean islands have sunshine 300 days a year,” and “Puerto Rico has wind in places where it wouldn’t interfere with tourism.” Mr. Clinton later turned to discussing his allergies with the man working behind the bakery counter at Sweetopia. Mr. Clinton relayed advice he said he had received from former Senator Tom Harkin, the Iowa Democrat who retired last year.  “You know Tom Harkin, the U.S. senator?” Mr. Clinton said. “I have terrible allergies, and he’s the first person who told me that honey cures most allergies — especially allergies that are generated by what’s in the wind.” Mr. Clinton turned down a cupcake and instead sipped on mulch-like green juice. A pizza vendor asked if he wanted sausage on his pizza. “No, just cheese,” said Mr. Clinton, who has eaten a mostly vegan diet since undergoing quadruple bypass in 2004.  Later, he met a man who talked to him about health care. “You can’t take a real complex infrastructure like that and flip it overnight,” Mr. Clinton told him.