 PhotoFormer Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton at the House Select Committee on Capitol Hill, Thursday.Credit Doug Mills/The New York Times  Good Friday morning. Thursday added its part to a busy week as Representative Paul D. Ryan officially declared his intent to run for speaker of the House. But for 11 hours of the day, cameras, eyes and live-blogs were trained on Hillary Rodham Clinton as she testified before the House committee investigating the 2012 attacks in Benghazi, Libya.  Mrs. Clinton’s campaign advisers had long expected her testimony before the Benghazi committee to be a high point in her otherwise difficult year. The day exceeded their expectations. For 11 hours — or the length of a flight from Europe to Los Angeles — Mrs. Clinton answered questions, some of them virtually shouted in her direction, ranging from whether she was alone in her house during the attacks to how often she used email while at the State Department. But instead of sticking to the attacks, much of the questioning, starting early on, centered on Sidney Blumenthal, her conspiracy-minded friend who was barred by President Obama’s aides from working for the administration but who sometimes emailed her with advice or with memos he had put together. In the hearing, Mrs. Clinton kept her tone even and her manner grave as she repeatedly said her focus was on the four Americans who died in the Benghazi attacks. “I would imagine I’ve thought more about what happened than all of you put together,” she told the committee members. The committee’s chairman, Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, often sounded defensive, saying in his opening statements, repeatedly, that the inquiry was never meant to target Mrs. Clinton. Yet Democrats believe that the images played on cable television all day — of mostly male, white Republicans grilling Mrs. Clinton — could only help her. After a recent streak of good days — a strong debate performance, and the news that Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. would not be seeking the nomination — Mrs. Clinton’s path is clearer, but not totally clear. The F.B.I. is still investigating the security of the private email server she used while secretary of state, another frequent line of questioning at the hearing, and her poll numbers in head-to-head matchups with several Republican candidates have taken a large hit over the last few months. Her aides say they feel that they have the wind at their back, but also know they have work still to do. Those issues are for days ahead. As for yesterday, Mrs. Clinton outlasted her questioners, and Mr. Gowdy, addressing reporters afterward, struggled to identify any new information gleaned during the hearing. What We’re Watching Today — Mr. Obama, who no longer has to choose between Mr. Biden and Mrs. Clinton, is scheduled to speak at a Democratic National Committee Women’s Leadership Forum, along with Mrs. Clinton, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Martin O’Malley and Lincoln Chafee, who posted on Twitter on Thursday that he would address his future at the event. — On the Republican side, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas will also be in Iowa, while Jeb Bush will hold a Q. and A. at Regent University in Virginia, the Christian college founded by Pat Robertson. Donald J. Trump will appear at the Trump National Doral hotel in Miami. Benghazi Hearing Coverage A Translation of Ryan’s Exchange With the Freedom Caucus Mr. Ryan appears to have the speaker’s gavel firmly in hand (although that is also what we thought about Representative Kevin McCarthy of California). Still to come is a fight over changes to House rules sought by the conservative Freedom Caucus. For the benefit of readers, we have put together a helpful English translation of the fairly arcane overhauls sought by the conservatives. And there’s more! We also have divined how Mr. Ryan might possibly, perhaps, maybe respond to some of the conservative requests if he could. Our Other Favorites from The Times What We’re Reading Elsewhere — Gary Hart, the former Democratic senator from Colorado who dropped out of the 1988 presidential primary after news broke of an extramarital affair, writes in Time that “the grown-ups are on the sidelines” in this year’s race as “public opinion now seems to support the idea that virtually anyone can be president, experienced or not.” He adds, “This confuses foreign observers who follow U.S. politics closely and who long for maturity, confidence, thoughtfulness and leadership from our nation but find those qualities lacking or in retreat.” — In other news organizations’ coverage of the Benghazi hearing, The Associated Press fact-checked many of the statements; ABC News took a look at the most asked on Google on the issue; and Politico says “her entourage at the hearing represented a who’s who of the email scandal that has dogged her presidential campaign.” — And Fox News writes that two of Mr. Carson’s “super PACs” are “combining forces — a step closer to possibly becoming a Super Super PAC with the joint goal of powering Carson to the top of the G.O.P. field.”