 Hillary Clinton on Sunday sought to put an end to the debate over the debate. After much prodding by Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont to convince her to agree to another debate before the April 19 primary in New York, Mrs. Clinton said she would attend a debate on April 14 in Brooklyn, the borough that houses both candidates’ campaign headquarters and where Mrs. Clinton spent Sunday speaking to congregants at several black churches. “I will be there. I think you’ve penciled it in for the 14th. I’ll be there,” Mrs. Clinton told NY1 after speaking at the Christian Cultural Center in the East New York area of Brooklyn. But an April 14 debate, which NY1 and The New York Daily News have proposed sponsoring together, remains a no-go for the Sanders campaign. His campaign says the date conflicts with a major rally Mr. Sanders plans to hold in a prime New York City venue that has already granted a hard-to-get permit. Michael Briggs, a spokesman for Mr. Sanders, said the campaign had proposed four other potential dates. (In December, when the debate schedule was first being worked out, the Sanders campaign had put forth April 14.) “I’m confident that we will work out a time that’s good for both of our schedules and when large numbers of people will be watching,” Mr. Sanders told CNN. The fight over the Brooklyn debate is just the latest dust-up in a Democratic primary in which both campaigns have prided themselves on policy-minded civility. “The Sanders campaign needs to stop with the games,” Brian Fallon, a Clinton spokesman, said on Saturday, noting that the Sanders campaign had rejected three proposed dates for a debate before the New York primary. But Mr. Briggs said that at least one of those proposed dates was “ludicrous” as it would have conflicted with the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball finals. Since the last debate between the two Democrats, on March 8 in Miami, the race has taken a more combative tone, with Mr. Sanders working hard to try and play catch-up, and Mrs. Clinton working to secure the party’s nomination against a unexpectedly formidable, and well-funded, opponent. In the interview with NY1, Mrs. Clinton tried to portray Mr. Sanders’s increasingly pointed criticism as a sign of desperation. “I understand as we get closer to the end there may be some anxiety, frustration and acting out on the other side that has to look at the facts,” Mrs. Clinton told Josh Robin of NY1. “Look, I have 2.5 million more votes nationwide than Senator Sanders,” Mrs. Clinton continued. “I have a big lead in delegates. In fact, my lead is higher right now than when I was running against President Obama and he led me in delegates.” At her church visits on Sunday, Mrs. Clinton criticized Mr. Sanders for his voting record on gun control measures and tried to portray him as ill-equipped to handle a national security crisis like the one she confronted as a senator from New York during the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. “National security cannot be an afterthought that somebody gets around to when they finish talking about everything else,” Mrs. Clinton told the Mt. Pisgah Baptist Church in Bedford-Stuyvesant. Her comments were perhaps a preview of her argument in the Brooklyn debate — if it happens.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.