 The House on Wednesday passed legislation bolstering sanctions against Iran, seeking to check President Obama’s ability to ease them without consulting Congress. Then, noting the absence of 137 lawmakers, House leaders called for a do-over. Last week Speaker Paul D. Ryan started the new year by cautioning lawmakers that he expected them to show up for votes on time, pushing back against a congressional culture where votes routinely last twice as long as allocated to accommodate stragglers. On Wednesday, Mr. Ryan looked ready to catch those trying to call his bluff, cutting off a 15-minute vote on the Iran sanctions shortly after the clock ticked down to zero. But when the final vote came to just 191-to-106 — with nearly a third of lawmakers not voting — Republican leaders canceled the vote, saying it was too important as tardy Republicans voiced their objections. “While we’ll continue to make that a priority, because many members missed this important vote, it was vacated and we’ll revote when we return,” AshLee Strong, Mr. Ryan’s spokeswoman, said in an email of his commitment to enforce time limits. As a bleary-eyed Washington staggered back into work after Mr. Obama’s final State of the Union address on Tuesday, lawmakers prepared to call it an early week, with the Senate already done and the House soon to follow suit for the annual Republican retreat in Baltimore. Whether because of a lack of caffeine, an abundance of pre-retreat excitement or an expectation that they would have more time to vote, like they always have, 80 Democrats and 57 Republicans missed the 11:30 a.m. vote — part of the only set of votes of the day. For a moment, it looked like the initial vote would stick. Mr. Ryan tweeted the “GREAT NEWS” of the bill’s passage. Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House majority leader, put out a news release. But less than half an hour later, they changed their minds. The vote will be rescheduled for the week of Jan. 25, when the House will next be in session.