 Good Tuesday morning. As the Republican candidates assemble talking points for Wednesday’s debate in Boulder, Colo., Congress has given them plenty to discuss with word of a potential agreement to raise the debt limit while decreasing Medicare and Social Security disability payments. Though the accord would potentially save Republican candidates from accusations of shutting down the government, it would pose a test for those who have led the charge for previous shutdowns. For the first time in many months, congressional Republicans may have spared their party a headache that could have damaged their chances in the presidential election. The deal that has been reached in principle would provide for a budget lasting through 2017 and would lift the debt ceiling, but it would also increase domestic and military spending. A failure to reach a deal would have been an election-year football for both parties, but it could have been particularly damning for Republicans, who have seen voters’ views of their party dim since the government shutdown of October 2013. It is unclear how presidential candidates from the two parties will respond to the measure, which must still be voted on in Congress. But so far, conservative Republicans are taking a dim view of the proposal. The measure, however, holds implications for conservative candidates like Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, the Tea Party favorite who has railed against budget deals and helped lead to the government shutdown in 2013. Mr. Cruz on Monday collected a string of endorsements in his home state, including from Darwin Deason, a billionaire and important donor to the campaign of Rick Perry, the former Texas governor who ended his presidential bid last month. Despite the Bush family’s strong connections to Texas donors, Mr. Cruz has wooed supporters who might otherwise have gone to Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor who is struggling to pare down costs and refocus his campaign. What We’re Watching Today — President Obama will travel to Chicago, his hometown, where the number of murders has risen, to press Congress to pass an overhaul to the nation’s sentencing laws and to urge more trust between African-Americans and the police. Speaking to the International Association of Chiefs of Police, Mr. Obama will praise officers for their daily sacrifices, but will call on more work to build relationships that can avoid racial clashes. Aides say he will again urge passage of measures meant to keep guns out of the hands of violent criminals, but will not offer new executive actions on that issue. — Michael D. Shear — Donald J. Trump, who has fallen out of the top spot in Iowa polls for the first time, will hold a rally at a high school in Sioux City. — Hillary Rodham Clinton will appear on the “Late Show With Stephen Colbert.” Our Favorites From The Times  What We’re Reading Elsewhere — CNN writes that Mrs. Clinton and her campaign, sensing a positive shift in momentum, are “taking urgent steps to avoid squandering a golden opportunity to inspire voters,” specifically increasing focus on New Hampshire, “which is the weakest link in her path to win the primary and could provide a critical test in how long the nominating fight lasts.” — BuzzFeed reports that a Hispanic conservative group is planning to hold a protest of Mr. Trump before the debate on Wednesday, but that there was disagreement in the group about a similar approach to Mr. Cruz. — The Wall Street Journal says that Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York plans to endorse Mrs. Clinton, toward whom he has so far been noncommittal to say the least, before an event in Iowa in December.