 President Obama defended his legacy and laid out the ways Hillary Clinton would continue it at the Democratic National Convention on Wednesday. Other speakers included Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., Michael R. Bloomberg and Senator Tim Kaine, Mrs. Clinton’s running mate. The highlights (or watch live and get our real-time analysis): • Mr. Obama, in the night’s most anticipated speech, offered a defiantly optimistic assessment of America’s future and of the woman who he hopes will lead it. Even as he acknowledged “we’re not done perfecting our union,” he said that in his experience, Donald J. Trump’s vision of the country as chaotic and in decline rang hollow and would not be rewarded. “The America I know is full of courage, and optimism, and ingenuity,” Mr. Obama said, amid searing attacks on Mr. Trump, the Republican nominee. “This year, in this election, I’m asking you to join me — to reject cynicism, reject fear, to summon what’s best in us.” Mrs. Clinton shares that vision, he said, and she has been “in the arena” fighting for it for much of her life. _____ • With the convention floor still on its feet for Mr. Obama, Mrs. Clinton walked out on stage and warmly embraced the president. She did not make any remarks but greeted the crowd with waves. _____ • Mr. Kaine delivered his first major national address since joining Mrs. Clinton’s ticket, and he packed a lot in. Slipping between English and Spanish and, at times, into an impersonation of Mr. Trump, Mr. Kaine sought to sow doubt about Mr. Trump’s character and bolster Mrs. Clinton’s. Along the way, he also introduced himself to voters across the country unfamiliar with his record. “If any of you are looking for that party of Lincoln,” Mr. Kaine said in a direct appeal to dissatisfied Republicans, “we’ve got a home for you.” _____ In an emotional and fiery appeal to middle-class Americans, Mr. Biden laid out a vision of an America that “always, always moves forward” on the strength of its values. Mr. Trump, he said, was not only unfit to lead such a nation through a dangerous world, but his election would be a betrayal of the nation’s values. “A man who seeks to sow division in America for his own gain and disorder around the world, a man who confuses bluster with strength — we simply cannot let that happen as Americans,” Mr. Biden said. _____ • Mr. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York and a political independent who opted not to run for president, said he was addressing the convention to convey a single message: “It is an imperative that we elect Hillary Clinton the next president of the United States.” Leaning on his own business record, Mr. Bloomberg, a billionaire, said he understood “the appeal of a businessman president” but that Mr. Trump was “a risky, reckless, radical choice.” _____ • Leon E. Panetta, who served as both C.I.A. director and defense secretary under Mr. Obama, delivered a sharp rebuke of Mr. Trump’s comments Wednesday encouraging Russian intelligence services to hack Mrs. Clinton’s email. “Donald Trump today once again took Russia’s side,” Mr. Panetta said, adding, “it is inconceivable to me that any presidential candidate would be that irresponsible.” “This is no time to gamble with our future,” he said. _____ • Greeted with chants of his name, Harry Reid, the Senate Democrats’ retiring leader, outlined one final fight: defeating Mr. Trump to preserve the party’s legislative agenda. He also tied Senate Republicans, who he said had given rise to “a hateful con man,” to Mr. Trump’s candidacy, a strategy that Democrats think could help them retake control of the Senate. _____ • Governor Jerry Brown of California turned the convention’s full attention toward climate change for the first time this week. Calling it “the existential threat of our time,” Mr. Brown painted the Republican ticket as dangerously anti-science. And lifting California up as an example, he said Mrs. Clinton would help usher in a national green economy that would not only mitigate environmental disaster but also create jobs. “Trump says there’s no drought in California,” he said. “I say Trump lies.” _____ • Crime and policing were major themes at last week’s Republican convention, but Charles H. Ramsey, a former head of police in Philadelphia and Washington, suggested they had missed the mark. Gun violence will drop with the adoption of “common sense” gun measures, he said, and “frayed” relationships between communities and police will be restored only through “strong, steady” leadership like Mrs. Clinton’s. “We can’t play to America’s worst fears,” he said. “We need to champion our greatest hopes.”