 Donald J. Trump, criticized for months for his comments on race, is about to be bolstered by a multi-cultural network of supporters hoping to tell a different side of his story.  The “National Diversity Coalition for Trump” was the brainchild of Michael Cohen, a longtime adviser to Mr. Trump at his company, who worked with Pastor Darrell Scott, a Trump supporter based in Cleveland, and a friend of Mr. Cohen. The group is planning to create a website that will showcase other supporters of Mr. Trump, who is a native of a diverse city but who is running in a party primary dominated by older, whiter voters.  “I know Mr. Trump and I know that there is not an ounce of truth to any of the allegations lodged against him by the liberal media. He’s not racist, misogynist, sexist or Islamophobic,” Mr. Scott said in an interview on Sunday.  “We need to let the world see that this depiction of Mr. Trump is not the reality that” he and Mr. Cohen know, he said.  “It began as a minority coalition for Trump, but we changed it to ‘Diversity Coalition for Trump.’ We changed it because we didn’t want to discriminate against white people,” Mr. Scott said, with a laugh. The website is still in formation, but other supporters, such as the former “Apprentice” star Omarosa Manigault, who has been a frequent surrogate for Mr. Trump, will appear.  Mr. Cohen, who stressed that he is not working for the campaign, said he presented his boss with a request to appear at a mosque recently.  “Mr. Trump is purely a performance-based critic,” said Mr. Cohen, adding, “The media and the establishment of both political parties are trying to convince the American people that Mr. Trump can only appeal to white, blue-collar men. That’s patently false. Mr. Trump appeals to all Americans and will be a great unifier when elected president.” Mr. Trump has tried before to pivot toward a greater show of diversity, with difficulty. A planned meeting with prominent pastors at Trump Tower in November, after a Black Lives Matter protester was kicked and punched at a Trump rally, became a media circus. Mr. Trump described the meeting as “amazing,” but some of the pastors were demure about whether they planned to make an endorsement. And Republican leaders are openly concerned that Mr. Trump’s unfettered comments about immigration and other topics have badly damaged him with general election voters.  But Mr. Scott said that his group had become an umbrella for other coalitions of supporters for Mr. Trump. The group will include Muslim, Asian and Hispanic supporters of Mr. Trump.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.