 During his recent social media fusillade against the N.F.L. and its players, President Trump claimed that ratings for football games were “way down,” except during pregame shows “when people tune in to see whether or not our country will be disrespected!” But data released Tuesday contradicts Mr. Trump’s point. Ratings for the N.F.L.’s Week 3 games — the first played since he suggested players who don’t stand for the national anthem should be fired — actually increased by 3 percent from last year, according to The Hollywood Reporter. Viewership did decline during three Sunday games, but increased in the 1 p.m. slot on CBS as well as during Thursday Night Football. Monday night’s game, between the Dallas Cowboys and the Arizona Cardinals, spiked 63 percent in viewership from last year when the game shared the same time slot as the first presidential debate. A White House spokesman referred The Times to viewership increases in pregame shows, so Mr. Trump has a point that his comments may have had an impact. Nonetheless, his description of game viewership as “way down” is overstated, sports rating analysts agreed. The league has seen a modest decline in viewership over the past few years, said Jon Lewis, who reports under the pseudonym “Paulsen” for Sports Media Watch, a website that specializes in following television ratings. But Mr. Lewis disagreed with the notion that there were “plummeting numbers.” Austin Karp, the assistant managing editor of SportsBusiness Daily, said it was too early to know what football’s viewership trends would look like this year. He noted that there were “lots of moving parts.” For instance, he said that the first week of games was “heavily affected by Hurricane Irma TV coverage, leading to a drop in ratings for the N.F.L. to start the season.” There’s a larger trend of a decline in linear television viewership to factor in as well. Ratings have been declining for most broadcasters for years now. Live sports coverage has somewhat bucked this trend. And among American audiences, football still commands more viewers than just about any other sport. Mr. Karp noted that both NBC’s Sunday Night Football, which declined by 15 percent from last year, and CBS’s Sunday games both averaged more viewers than the last 11 iterations of the Daytona 500 for Nascar, which Mr. Trump notably praised and contrasted with the N.F.L. on Twitter. Both analysts are skeptical that backlash to players taking a knee during the national anthem is driving the decline, given that the trend began before the former San Francisco quarterback Colin Kaepernick’s first demonstration during the 2016 season. “I’ve seen little to no evidence of viewers tuning out due to kneeling or not kneeling,” Mr. Karp said. Ultimately, “people tune into sports for the sport,” Mr. Lewis said. Or, as my colleague Kevin Draper, a sports reporter for The Times has put it: “The unsatisfying truth is that N.F.L. ratings are a Rorschach test, often revealing more about the test taker than the subject.” Read his full report here on the greater trends impacting football viewership beyond this current climate of criticism and protests.