 Bobby Jindal, the former Louisiana governor who last September called Donald J. Trump a “narcissist” and an “egomaniacal madman” who had no principles, said he would vote for the presumptive Republican nominee despite his  concern about his candidacy. Explaining his predicament in a Wall Street Journal op-ed article, Mr. Jindal, who gained little traction in his own presidential bid last year, said that he would support Mr. Trump “warts and all” because he thinks that Hillary Clinton would be a more dangerous option for the country as president. “I think electing Donald Trump would be the second-worst thing we could do this November, better only than electing Hillary Clinton to serve as the third term for the Obama administration’s radical policies,” Mr. Jindal wrote in a column that was published late on Sunday. Mr. Jindal’s reluctant endorsement of Mr. Trump comes as prominent Republicans are struggling to come to grips with the idea of him being the party’s standard bearer. While some former opponents like former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas have said they will support Mr. Trump, others such as former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said that they would not. Mr. Jindal, who dropped out of the race last November, was one of the most vocal critics of Mr. Trump. In a speech to the National Press Club last September he said “the reality of Donald Trump is absurd, he’s a non-serious carnival act.” He also levied personal insults at Mr. Trump, suggesting in a television interview that his hairstyle looks like a squirrel is sitting on his head. While Mr. Jindal said he still had deep concern about Mr. Trump, he remained hopeful that the Manhattan businessman would be more conservative than Mrs. Clinton, who is still working to clinch the Democratic nomination. Still, it was evident that Mr. Jindal will be holding his nose at the polls in November. “I do not pretend Donald Trump is the Reaganesque leader we so desperately need, but he is certainly the better of two bad choices,” Mr. Jindal wrote. “Hardly an inspiring slogan, I know.”