 Jeb Bush took a dig at his longtime friend, and now rival, Marco Rubio on Thursday, suggesting that the senator from Florida does not have the leadership skills to be president. Mr. Bush, the former governor of Florida, emphasized that he was the one calling the shots when they were both lawmakers in the state and said that the election of President Obama showed how risky it was voting for someone based on their leadership potential. “I think I have the leadership skills to fix things,” Mr. Bush said on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe.” He added, “Marco was a member of the House of Representatives when I was governor, and he followed my lead.” Asked if he thought Mr. Rubio had the leadership skills to fix things, Mr. Bush said, “It’s not known. Barack Obama didn’t end up having them and he won an election on the belief that he could.” It is a sharper line of attack from Mr. Bush, who has lagged in the polls amid a boomlet of sorts for Mr. Rubio. In an interview with CNN on Wednesday, Mr. Bush compared Mr. Rubio’s message to Mr. Obama’s from 2008. “Look, we had a president who came in and said the same kind of thing — new and improved, hope and change — and he didn’t have the leadership skills to fix things,” Mr. Bush said. Speaking to reporters after a town hall-style event in Bedford, N.H., on Wednesday night, Mr. Bush did offer some kinder words about Mr. Rubio, coaxed by the bombast of Donald J. Trump. Earlier, Mr. Trump had said that the purported Bush-Rubio friendship was pure political artifice. (He used a less delicate noun.) “We’re close friends and I admire him greatly,” Mr. Bush said, praising Mr. Rubio’s family and allowing that it was “a little awkward” that they were seeking the same office. Moments later, Mr. Bush was asked about his proposal to dock the pay of lawmakers who miss votes — which has been taken, in part, as a swipe at Mr. Rubio, who has frequently missed votes. “Is his voting record a problem?” a reporter asked. “I think if you had a dock in pay strategy, you’d probably get more attendance,” he said generally, as an aide signaled there would be no more questions. As Mr. Rubio has risen in recent polls, he has faced more criticism from rivals, particularly from Mr. Trump. Mr. Bush’s doubts about Mr. Rubio’s leadership qualifications are a departure from the confidence he used to have in the senator. In a 2012 interview about potential vice-presidential picks for Mitt Romney, Mr. Bush said that Mr. Rubio would be a great choice.  “He has more experience than Barack Obama had when he ran, more practical experience,” Mr. Bush said. “And certainly got the intellectual acumen and the fortitude to be a good president.” — Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) October 1, 2015 