 Broad support from women and minority voters has helped Hillary Clinton open an early lead over Donald J. Trump nationally, according to a new poll released on Monday. A Monmouth University survey found that 47 percent of registered voters back Mrs. Clinton, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, while 40 percent support Mr. Trump, the Republican Party’s standard-bearer. The survey is the latest in a succession of recent polls that show Mrs. Clinton having an advantage, as Mr. Trump’s campaign has sputtered amid internal strife and an array of provocative public comments. “Clinton has the advantage as the general election campaign kicks off, particularly in key swing states,” said Patrick Murray, director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute, in a statement. “However, all signs point to 2016 turning out the most polarized electorate in memory.” The lack of diversity that comprises Mr. Trump’s core supporters has become a problem for his general election prospects. The poll found Mrs. Clinton drawing the support of 72 percent of minority voters and 57 percent of female voters. Mr. Trump holds more modest leads among men and white voters. Mrs. Clinton is also winning in swing states that were decided by less than seven points in 2012. In those 10 states, she is leading by an average margin of 47 percent to 39 percent. During the primary campaign, Republican voters saw Mr. Trump as the strongest candidate to handle the economy and terrorism. But when pitted against Mrs. Clinton, he lags in both categories. The poll comes as Mr. Trump fired his campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, on Monday, and it follows a response to the Orlando massacre this month that many viewed to be erratic. Mr. Trump doubled down on his call for ban on Muslim immigration, expanding the idea to include countries with a history of carrying out terrorist acts against the United States, and has said that he wished the people in the gay nightclub that was attacked were armed with guns. But 70 percent of Americans oppose Mr. Trump’s proposed barring of Muslims from entering the country, according to the Monmouth poll, and 52 percent would like to see a ban on assault weapons such as the one used by the terrorist in Orlando. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points.