 Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont begins a four-day swing through Iowa on Friday, hosting multiple events intended in part to motivate people to attend the caucuses in the first state in the nominating process to vote. A poll conducted for The Des Moines Register and Bloomberg Politics last month showed Hillary Clinton leading in the state by about 10 percentage points, with 48 percent of likely Democratic caucus participants saying that she was their first choice, and 39 percent saying they would support Mr. Sanders. His campaign, hoping to close that gap, has assembled an extensive ground operation in Iowa with 27 local campaign offices, 101 paid staff members and thousands of trained volunteers for each of the state’s 1,681 caucus precincts. “From the beginning, Senator Sanders has understood the importance of Iowa in the process, so it’s not surprising that he is returning again,” said Rania Batrice, Mr. Sanders’s communications director based in Iowa. “He has been saying for quite some time that Iowa is one of those places, just like the rest of country, if turnout is high, we are going to win.” It is the 15th trip to Iowa for Mr. Sanders, who is also expected to discuss a host of economic and social issues that have now become familiar parts of his campaign, including climate change, income inequality and the need to overhaul Wall Street. Mr. Sanders will keep a full schedule, starting the trip on Friday with a news conference questioning what his campaign says is Mrs. Clinton’s refusal to support the Family Act, a bill dealing with paid family and medical leave. Over the weekend, Mr. Sanders is scheduled to meet with seniors, speak at the Iowa Citizens for Community Improvement Action Fund, host forums on veterans’ issues and climate change, and hold several town-hall-style meetings. On Monday, Mr. Sanders, Mrs. Clinton, and Martin O’Malley are expected to attend the Iowa Brown and Black Presidential Forum, where each is expected to discuss concerns of African-Americans and Latinos. 