 Donald J. Trump’s campaign aides said that because of a technical glitch, a well-known white nationalist leader was included on a list of California delegates that they submitted to the secretary of state’s office.  It was the latest flap over support that Mr. Trump has received from a white nationalist figure; he was criticized for declining to disavow the former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke’s support in February despite being asked to repeatedly in an interview if he would do so. Mr. Trump later said, “I disavow” regarding Mr. Duke, and he rejected more recent statements from Mr. Duke that invoked anti-Semitism.  The list of prospective delegates for California, where the primary is on June 7, initially included the white nationalist leader William Johnson, who heads the American National “super PAC.” His inclusion was first reported by Mother Jones.  In a statement, the Trump campaign’s California state director, Tim Clark, said that the list was submitted on Monday to be certified by the secretary of state.  “Upon careful review of computer records, the inclusion of a potential delegate that had previously been rejected and removed from the campaign’s list in February 2016 was discovered,” he said. “This was immediately corrected and a final list, which does not include this individual, was submitted for certification.” Mr. Johnson told The Associated Press that he had believed “people wouldn’t notice” that he had submitted his name for consideration. “And if they did notice, I didn’t think it would be a big deal,” he said.  Mr. Trump has also been criticized for describing Mexican immigrants as rapists, and for his proposed temporary ban on Muslims entering the country. His criticism of President  Obama and his suggestions in 2011 that Mr. Obama was born in Kenya have infuriated black voters, the group with whom several national polls show Mr. Trump has the most negative ratings.  The California Assembly Speaker. Anthony Rendon, a Democrat, scoffed at the “database error” claim.  “Donald Trump has elevated hateful rhetoric against women, people with special needs, and minorities throughout his campaign,” he said in a statement released by the state Democratic Party. “The fact that he is blaming his inclusion of a white nationalist as one of his delegates on a ‘database error’ does not erase his previous record of hate-mongering.”
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.