 Donald J. Trump, boycotting the Fox News debate but not one of the network’s hosts, insisted to Bill O’Reilly on Wednesday night that he wasn’t “walking away” from a tough situation even as Mr. O’Reilly said he thought Mr. Trump had erred in skipping the final face-off before the Iowa caucuses and pleaded with him to change his mind.  Mr. Trump, in an interview on Mr. O’Reilly’s show that had been scheduled last week, repeatedly said he was forced to bypass the debate because of a “childish” statement by the network, mocking him as unserious in his approach to the presidency as he demanded it remove Megyn Kelly as a debate host.  “I’m trying to convince you that your tack is wrong, because it’s better for the folks to see you in the debate format,” Mr. O’Reilly said.  He pointed to Newt Gingrich using negative questions during the debate in South Carolina in 2012 to great effect as he pummeled the moderator John King of CNN in the Republican primary campaign. Mr. Gingrich later won the primary in the state. “I’m telling you, that’s the way to go here,” Mr. O’Reilly said.  “This has to do with the stupidity of Fox and what they did,” Mr. Trump said.  Mr. O’Reilly at one moment pointed to his cheek and urged Mr. Trump to follow biblical teachings to turn the other one. Mr. Trump said he prefers the biblical dictum about “an eye for an eye.”  Mr. O’Reilly defended Ms. Kelly, saying that her questions in the first debate were within bounds. “I disagree,” Mr. Trump said. Mr. O’Reilly appeared to alternately prove the point that Mr. Trump dictates what the news media around him does and make the point that the candidate’s decision to boycott the debate is not without risks; voters, he pointed out, are just beginning to tune in, and they may wonder about a candidate who calls off participation based on questions.  “If you’re elected president, you’re gonna get a lot more than that,” Mr. O’Reilly said.  Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, Mr. Trump’s main rival in the Iowa caucuses, has happily shared that sentiment over the last two days.  “What does it say when Donald tells the men and women of Iowa, ‘My time is more important than your time?’ ” Mr. Cruz told attendees at an event in West Des Moines.  “We’ve spent seven years with a narcissistic, self-involved president in Washington,” Mr. Cruz said. “So if Donald finds Megyn so terribly frightening, I yesterday suggested an alternative. He and I are the leading candidates in this state right now.”  He added: “If gentle Donald cannot handle Kelly, how about, for a moderator instead, Mark Levin? Or if he doesn’t like Mark Levin, how about Sean Hannity? Or if he doesn’t like Sean Hannity, how about Rush Limbaugh?” Later on Wednesday night, a group of “super PACS” supporting Mr. Cruz released a statement saying that they would donate $1.5 million to veterans groups if Mr. Trump agreed to Mr. Cruz’s one-on-one debate offer. As the interview on Fox News wound down, Mr. O’Reilly said that he had bought Mr. Trump many milkshakes in the past, using that as collateral to ask the candidate to rethink his stand.