 Ted Cruz’s success in the Iowa caucuses on Monday was a victory for the Republican base, if not for the party establishment. Looking ahead to New Hampshire, the terrain will be quite different. Mr. Cruz drew his strongest support from very conservative voters, 43 percent of whom backed him, and from those primarily seeking a candidate who shared their values, according to Edison Research, which conducted entrance polls at precincts across the state. He also won a plurality of the white evangelical vote, with 33 percent to Donald J. Trump’s 21 percent, after receiving crucial endorsements in the state from the religious leader Bob Vander Plaats and from Representative Steve King. Mr. Cruz even eked out a slight advantage over Mr. Trump among voters without college degrees. Less-educated voters have been a major source of Mr. Trump’s support. But if the Iowa caucuses cater to the Republican Party’s conservative base, New Hampshire is typically a state where broadly palatable, general-election-friendly candidates can stake their hopes. (Govs. John R. Kasich of Ohio and Chris Christie of New Jersey, relative moderates who each won less than 2 percent of the vote at Monday’s caucuses, have invested heavily in New Hampshire while virtually ignoring Iowa.) The strong third-place finish on Monday of Senator Marco Rubio of Florida could position him as the candidate who threads the needle between the Republican base and the party’s business elite. Mr. Rubio earned 23 percent of the vote at last night’s caucuses, more than any major pre-election poll had indicated. And the demographic groups that supported him most strongly tend to be of core importance to the Republican electorate in New Hampshire. He was the favorite among college graduates, 27 percent of whom backed him, and among those who rated the economy and jobs as their highest priority, according to the Edison entrance polling. In 2012, college graduates made up 55 percent of the voters in the Republican primary in New Hampshire, according to exit polls by Edison. Mr. Rubio also beat Mr. Cruz by nearly three to one among self-described moderates and liberals in Iowa — though Mr. Trump carried this group, with 34 percent. Mr. Rubio and Mr. Trump each earned 22 percent among those who described themselves as independents, more than any other candidates. The Republican primary in New Hampshire is open to undeclared voters; in 2012, moderates and liberals cast three of every 10 ballots. (By contrast, 85 percent of the Iowa caucusgoers this year were conservatives.) Those with family incomes of more than $100,000 a year accounted for roughly four in 10 voters at the 2012 New Hampshire primary, suggesting an opportunity for Mr. Rubio. He is increasingly positioning himself as the candidate to unite the party’s wealthier, executive sector with its populist, conservative base. What is perhaps most notable, Mr. Rubio won a whopping 43 percent support among Iowa caucusgoers most interested in finding a candidate who can win the general election. In 2012, those voters made up 45 percent of New Hampshire’s primary voters, compared with less than one in three Iowa caucusgoers that year. (This time round, they accounted for just 21 percent of Republican caucus attendees.) The caucuses on Monday were marked by overwhelming turnout on both the Republican and the Democratic sides. More than 186,000 Iowans attended the Republican caucuses, the highest on record. Over 170,000 Democrats caucused, too, exceeding most projections. For Mr. Trump, the high participation did not translate into victory, as many pundits had predicted it might. Forty-six percent of caucusgoers had never attended one before, and Mr. Trump won 31 percent of those voters. But Mr. Cruz earned an equal share of support from Iowans who had caucused in the past, a larger slice of the electorate. On the Democratic side, where Hillary Clinton escaped with a narrow victory, Senator Bernie Sanders earned almost six in 10 votes from first-time caucusgoers. Mrs. Clinton won caucus veterans by virtually the same margin.
Mr. Sanders proved most popular among those under 30 — with 84 percent support — and among those who described themselves as independents, about seven in 10 of whom caucused for him. With less than a week to go until the New Hampshire primary, polls show Mr. Sanders with a commanding, sometimes two-to-one lead there over Mrs. Clinton. The depth of his support may have to do with the Granite State’s reputation for hostility to establishment politics: Fully 44 percent of voters in the 2008 Democratic primary — which Mrs. Clinton narrowly won — identified themselves as independents. Giovanni Russonello is a member of The Times’s news surveys department.
This is one of an occasional series of posts taking a deeper look at polling during this campaign cycle.