 BURBANK, Calif. — Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont tried to dance as he entered the stage for a taping of “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” here on Wednesday afternoon, pointing and clapping (not quite on the beat). He laughed along with the crowd as Ms. DeGeneres compared his hair to her wife’s. And, after some hesitation, he even answered a question about which member of the band One Direction was his favorite (“maybe Harry,” he said), drawing perhaps his loudest applause of the day. The day after a Democratic debate in which many pundits agreed Hillary Rodham Clinton had outflanked him, the appearance on “Ellen” offered Mr. Sanders the chance to show some levity. Humor has hardly been a Sanders trademark. Instead, he has built surprisingly strong support by haranguing Wall Street and its excesses, with huge rallies punctuated more by yells and scowls than laughs. But on Wednesday, playing to a different crowd, most of his lines about the 1 percent did not garner as many cheers as his admission that he preferred briefs over boxers. While sitting on the “hot seat,” the candidate, who has so often spoken about the need to focus on “the real issues facing this country,” said he asked his wife if she had a crush on any celebrities (sitting in the crowd, she demurred) and admitted that if he had to be stranded on a desert island with one Republican candidate, he would pick Senator Marco Rubio of Florida. “He’s used to the sun,” Mr. Sanders said. His favorite song to sing at karaoke? He couldn’t remember the name. It was from “Saturday Night Fever.” Ms. DeGeneres encouraged him to sing it. But Mr. Sanders did not rise to the bait. “You know how it goes,” he said. “John Travolta, walking down the street.” She finally answered, “Stayin’ Alive.” Ms. DeGeneres has proved a popular, if unlikely, campaign stop for Democrats this election cycle. She did not, however, always make it easy on Mr. Sanders: Right off the bat, she replayed the moment from the night before when he said he was sick of discussing Mrs. Clinton’s “damn emails,” thereby defending his rival on her point of weakness. But Mr. Sanders did not back down from that decision, holding it up as an example of his refusal to play the kind of politics he is campaigning against. “I’m very proud to say, I’ve never run a negative political ad in my entire life, and I’ve been attacked a whole lot,” he said. He was a long way from the campaign rallies where he has drawn throngs denouncing Wall Street excesses. And though he at times looked awkward, no one could accuse him of not trying to have fun with Ms. DeGeneres. He danced again — or, at least, tried — on the out, still clapping off the beat. Although it was clear his nature always led him back toward the stern and serious, he did try to get in his jokes when the opportunities presented themselves. When asked if he had ever been in handcuffs, he responded with, “I don’t know exactly what you mean by that,” he said, drawing a huge laugh. But then he began the serious explanation. “I take it to mean was I ever arrested by the police,” he said, and the guffaws subsided.