 Updated, 1:34 p.m. |  With his biography under the microscope, supporters of Ben Carson are digging in with new plans to highlight the Republican presidential candidate’s most clear-cut credential: his career as a renowned neurosurgeon. The 2016 Committee, a “super PAC” that was formed to draft Mr. Carson into the race, has hired a media team that will be given the task of showcasing a different side of the doctor and share the perspective of the people he has treated. “The liberal media and powerful political establishment are doing everything they can to undermine Dr. Carson’s integrity,” wrote John Philip Sousa IV, chairman of committee, in an email to supporters of Mr. Carson. “But we’re committed to staying positive and telling America about the ways Dr. Carson has saved lives.” Mr. Carson’s background is under scrutiny after reports that he lied about elements of his life story over the years, including making the claim in his memoir, “Gifted Hands,” that he won a scholarship to United States Military Academy at West Point. He acknowledged last week that he never was admitted to the academy. Soft-spoken and congenial on the campaign trail, Mr. Carson struck a more combative tone over the weekend, accusing the news media of unfairly picking apart the details of his life. Other Republicans were happy to pile on in hopes of rattling a candidate who has surged to the top of several polls. Donald J. Trump called Mr. Carson’s statements “troubling” and former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas took the opportunity to highlight some less flattering aspects of his biography on Monday, telling MSNBC, “I never hit my mother with a hammer and I never stabbed anybody.” As part of a strategy to counteract the negative publicity, Mr. Carson’s supporters want to reveal the bedside manner of the candidate who is famous for being the first surgeon to separate twins who were joined at the head. The group has contracted Cooke Pictures and Savannah Communications to create “cutting-edge video and television” work for the committee and it is seeking former patients of Mr. Carson to participate in the filming. “There is no time to waste,” Mr. Sousa said. “This is your chance to stand up for Ben Carson.” Tony Marsh, of Savanna Communications, said that he has been talking with Mr. Carson’s supporters for a few weeks about starting the project, and that he thinks now is a good time to let voters know more about him on a personal level. The videos will include testimonials from former patients as well as from their families and people who have benefited from Mr. Carson’s scholarship fund.  “Those are two aspects of his story that I don’t think are being told as strongly as they should be,” Mr. Marsh said. “He’s changed the lives of so many people around America.” Mr. Marsh said he has already received names of several people from Mr. Carson’s past who want to participate in the filming of the videos.  Although he said that the new communications strategy was not a direct response to fresh questions about Mr. Carson’s background, Mr. Marsh made clear that his supporters are pushing back against recent scrutiny facing the candidate. “I don’t think there are a lot of misconceptions out there, except in the media,” he said. 