 PELLA, Iowa – The Des Moines Register, the largest newspaper in Iowa, announced Saturday night that it had endorsed Senator Marco Rubio in the Republican race and Hillary Clinton in the Democratic race. With the caucuses nine days away, as all the leading candidates of both parties crisscrossed the state, the paper’s once highly anticipated backing might be less meaningful than it once was, in an age of reduced print circulation and the hogging of the news cycle by a candidate whose Twitter posts reach nearly six million people and whose rallies are covered live on television. That candidate, Donald J. Trump, was never in contention for The Register’s embrace. Its editorial board last summer called for him to drop out of the race after he belittled the Vietnam War record of Senator John McCain, the party’s 2008 nominee. The paper’s endorsement of Mr. Rubio echoed that sentiment. “Republicans have the opportunity to define their party’s future in this election. They could choose anger, pessimism and fear. Or they could take a different path,’’ the editors wrote. Calling Mr. Rubio his “party’s best hope’’ the paper praised his attempt to welcome Hispanic voters and called him “whip-smart” in meetings with editors. Endorsing Mrs. Clinton, the paper wrote that “she is not a perfect person” but noted, “The presidency is not an entry-level position.” It praised her experience and qualifications to deal with the Islamic State and work with foreign leaders. It praised Mrs. Clinton’s chief rival, Senator Bernie Sanders, for injecting the issue of income inequality into the races in both parties. But it hesitated over the near-impossibility Mr. Sanders would face in getting his revolutionary programs through Congress. “I am very pleased. Obviously, it means a lot to me,” Mrs. Clinton told reporters as she shook hands with voters on the rope line after a rally in Davenport. In a bit of mischief or at least good timing, the Sanders campaign had bought a “takeover ad” that covered the home page of the Register’s web site Saturday night, filling the frame with Mr. Sanders’s photo even before a reader could see who the newspaper had endorsed. After nonstop candidate traffic in Iowa for most of full year, the endorsements were the like the gun sounding on the final lap, a ritual more symbolic than influential. Nate Silver, the datacentric political analyst, attempted to calculate the value of The Register’s endorsements in 2011 after the paper backed Mitt Romney before the 2102 caucuses. Mr. Silver determined that since the paper first endorsed caucus candidates in 1988, six of eight performed better on voting day than they might have without the endorsement, although the bounce was “statistically insignificant.” Mr. Romney, who was leading by 2 percentage points in a Register poll released days before the 2012 caucuses, ended up losing by just a few votes to a surging Rick Santorum, illustrating the volatility of the race in the final days. The last time a candidate endorsed by The Register won a caucus was in 2000, when George W. Bush was victorious. In November, New Hampshire’s biggest newspaper, The Union Leader, endorsed Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey. Mr. Christie, already campaigning hard in the state, doubled his support in New Hampshire polls in the month following the endorsement, to about 11 percent, but he has since slipped as Mr. Trump has consolidated a double-digit lead over the entire field.