 MANCHESTER, N.H. — A “super PAC” supporting Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio said it would take down an attack ad in New Hampshire after Senator Kelly Ayotte, the state’s popular Republican senator, criticized it as inappropriate and exploitative. The ad, financed by New Day for America, a pro-Kasich group, went after Senator Marco Rubio of Florida for having voted against reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act, and showed footage of Ms. Ayotte speaking in favor of the law. “Who voted against it?” the ad asked. “Marco Rubio.” Ms. Ayotte, who is a popular figure among Republicans in New Hampshire, is neutral in her state’s Feb. 9 primary, and condemned the commercial in a statement. Calling domestic violence prevention “a serious issue,” she said, “I’m appalled that an outside group has exploited it in a political attack.” After Ms. Ayotte rebuked the super PAC, John Weaver, a senior aide to Mr. Kasich’s presidential campaign, wrote on Twitter that New Day for America “should pull ad on Rubio’s vote.” — John Weaver (@JWGOP) February 1, 2016  Connie Wehrkamp, a spokeswoman for the super PAC, said it would replace the negative ad with a positive commercial about Mr. Kasich’s record.  Campaigns and super PACs are not allowed to coordinate their political strategy or television advertising plans. The Monday morning melee over the group’s Rubio-bashing ad underscores just how chaotic the race in New Hampshire has become, as four candidates aligned with the national Republican establishment scramble to stand out from the pack in a state in which Donald J. Trump has dominated in polls. And as quickly as the pro-Kasich group pulled back on the commercial, the ad nevertheless injected a new issue into the race that Mr. Rubio may be asked about. Mr. Kasich, who has gradually gained ground in New Hampshire with an upbeat and moderate-sounding campaign message, has faced intensifying attacks from his rivals. Super PACs supporting former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida and Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey have been running television commercials attacking Mr. Kasich for his record on health care and military spending, and for his stint as a banker at Lehman Brothers. The Ohio governor has sought to position himself as the nice-guy candidate in the race, though he has not explicitly ruled out going after his opponents. At an event in Keene, N.H., over the weekend, Mr. Kasich said that when his opponents are on the attack, “We’re not going to sit back and take it.”