 Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, vowing to play an influential role in the 2018 midterm elections, was blunt on Friday about the stakes for the Democratic Party. “If Democrats control either the House or the Senate, Trump’s agenda is dead,” Mr. Sanders said during a conversation with New York Times reporters and editors. At this critical moment ahead of hundreds of House and Senate primaries, Mr. Sanders also argued that the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and other national party organizations are not doing enough to support liberal grass-roots candidates who are running against Mr. Trump and backing a progressive agenda. “The establishment Democrats are still, I think, looking toward candidates who can self-fund,” said Mr. Sanders, a progressive independent who had enormous success raising about $230 million in mostly small-dollar and online donations during his 2016 presidential bid. National Democrats “still have a tendency to believe that more conservative candidates are better positioned to win,” he added. Mr. Sanders argued that ideas like “Medicare for All” and a higher minimum wage, which he championed in 2016, are increasingly popular and helpful to Democratic candidates. Mr. Sanders said he plans to make endorsements in the midterms, but that he is still deciding where he can be most effective. In the New York governor’s race, in which Cynthia Nixon, the progressive activist and former “Sex and the City” star, is challenging Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo in the Democratic primary, Mr. Sanders declined to make an endorsement when asked. Ms. Nixon has positioned herself as more of a populist, criticizing Mr. Cuomo for his reliance on large donors. “Governor Cuomo has a strong record, he has done some very good things, obviously there are areas where I disagree with him,” Mr. Sanders said. “Cynthia seems to be generating a lot of grass-roots enthusiasm running on a progressive platform.” Asked if he could envision endorsing Mr. Cuomo over Ms. Nixon, Mr. Sanders reiterated that he was not making any endorsements on Friday. The political stances of Mr. Sanders and Mr. Cuomo became a point of debate this past week when a spokeswoman for Mr. Cuomo said the two politicians were “in lockstep.” Asked about that comment, Mr. Sanders replied, “My staff said something differently,” referring to a vulgarity posted on Twitter by one of his advisers about the topic.