 CHICAGO — With just days before several primaries where she will depend on the loyalty of female and black voters in Florida, North Carolina and the Midwest, Hillary Clinton got some heavyweight help from Hollywood. The campaign released a new ad titled “Real Life” featuring the TV writing powerhouse Shonda Rhimes and the actresses who play the leading characters on the hit shows she produces, including Kerry Washington, the star of “Scandal,” Ellen Pompeo of “Grey’s Anatomy” fame, and Viola Davis, who plays a high-profile defense lawyer-turned college professor Annalise Keating in “How to Get Away With Murder.” They profess that Mrs. Clinton is the “real life” version of their characters. In the ad, which began airing across the states that hold contests on Tuesday, the actresses alternate describing their characters. “Every day I wake up and play a brilliant, complex, overqualified, get-it-done woman, who obsessively fights for justice, who cares, who gives a voice to the voiceless, who gets knocked down and always gets backed up,” the women say.  “I make television filled with the kinds of characters I imagine we all can be,” Ms. Rhimes says.  “Our characters are on television,” Ms. Washington says.  “The real world has Hillary Clinton,” Ms. Rhimes says.  The ad concludes with all of the women saying, “I’m with Hillary,” and Ms. Rhimes, staring intensely at the camera, adds, “Join us.” The ad, aimed at Mrs. Clinton’s base, aims to counter the strength her opponent, Senator Bernie Sanders, has shown among young and white voters in the Midwest. His campaign’s onslaught of ads in Illinois, Missouri and Ohio strike a less personal tone and instead hammer Mrs. Clinton (without mentioning her) for her past support of global trade deals that have been widely blamed on job losses in the manufacturing sector. Mrs. Clinton has found devoted surrogates in the cast of ABC’s prime-time dramas. “Real Life” was directed by Tony Goldwyn, who portrays the fictional President Fitzgerald Grant II opposite Ms. Washington’s character Olivia Pope on Ms. Rhimes’s “Scandal.” The cast kept the Clinton ad top secret, but suspicions were raised when the former secretary of state stopped by the show’s set on a fund-raising swing to Los Angeles last month. At a rally in Nashville, Mrs. Clinton hinted at the ad, telling the audience Ms. Washington “just cut some ads for me.”