 Donald J. Trump’s rivals are trying to tar him as a “Michael Moore Republican” after his lampooning of George W. Bush as a president who lied to America and failed to keep the country safe. But Mr. Moore, the liberal filmmaker, does not see much similarity between himself and Mr. Trump. In fact, Mr. Moore finds the presidential candidate frightening. “Personally I was enjoying it in the earlier days of the summer, the performance art for comedy purposes, I kind of didn’t want the show to end,” Mr. Moore said in an interview. “At some point nobody is laughing. It isn’t very funny.” Mr. Moore has been amused, however, by the recent invocations of his name by Republicans such as Jeb Bush and Senator Ted Cruz, who have suggested that Mr. Trump’s comments about the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and the Iraq war are reminiscent of conspiracy theories they say are peddled in Mr. Moore’s movies. Mr. Moore, who released his first movie in six years this week, was surprised that Republicans had injected him into the center of their debate but said the strategy was a sign that the party had lost touch with its base.  “They’re floundering, trying to find their way and trying to find an audience,” said Mr. Moore, noting that Mr. Trump’s criticism of the former president has not diminished Mr. Trump’s support. “Ten years ago, just the mention of my name would have gotten a lot of boos. But there was laughter.” While Mr. Moore said he appreciated how Mr. Trump had garnered such passionate support, no endorsement is imminent. But Mr. Moore said that Democrats were also missing the point when it came to Mr. Trump and that they would underestimate him at their peril if he wins the Republican nomination. “Democrats and liberals need to take Trump seriously because some of the things he’s saying, in his own kind of crude and clunky way, are being heard by the working class,” Mr. Moore said, pointing to Mr. Trump’s views on trade, Planned Parenthood and health care that Republicans say are anathema to conservative principles.  Mr. Moore, who supports Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont for the Democratic nomination, predicted that in a general election Mr. Trump would temper some of his hard-line conservative positions but that he would also attract far more enthusiasm than Hillary Clinton could drum up as the Democratic nominee. It is a prospect he finds unsettling. “His populism is filled with hate and racism and xenophobia,” Mr. Moore said of Mr. Trump. “Throughout history there have been populists who say a few things that appeal to the masses, especially the working class to get their support, when their larger agenda is pretty damn scary.” Still, even Mr. Moore, a popular figure in the progressive movement, said he was not sure if Mr. Trump really believes what he has been telling his supporters.  “He’s smart enough to know what to say, and I’m sure a piece of him believes it,” Mr. Moore said. “But he’s in constant performance mode. That’s how you get good ratings.”