 Updated, 9:31 p.m. | Before the Republican candidates had even walked off the CNBC debate stage in Boulder, Colo., on Wednesday evening, their anger and frustration were pouring into public view, creating a crisis for the candidates, their party and the television networks hosting this year’s debates. And on Friday, the Republican National Committee took action, suspending a debate scheduled for Feb. 26 hosted by NBC News and its sister station, Telemundo. The move illustrated the party’s distrust of the mainstream media, its leading candidates’ preoccupation with rebelling against power, and the tactical wager that Republicans can outmaneuver television networks dependent on record-breaking ratings from this year’s debates. The action came after a flurry of calls in which the candidates’ representatives conveyed their fury to party leaders over what they described as the hostile tone of the anchors moderating the debates.  “While debates are meant to include tough questions and contrast candidates’ visions and policies for the future of America, CNBC’s moderators engaged in a series of ‘gotcha’ questions, petty and meanspirited in tone, and designed to embarrass our candidates,” the party’s chairman, Reince Priebus, wrote in a letter to Andrew Lack, the chairman of NBC News. The action by the party leadership seemed designed in part to redirect Republican anger away from the national committee, which many believe has bungled the debate process. The campaigns of Donald J. Trump and Ben Carson, who lead in many recent polls, have led many of the changes to the debate process so far, reflecting how insurgent candidates can sway the party, particularly as they confront traditional media companies that have long controlled the debate format. The campaigns are also working to influence the format of coming debates and have planned a private meeting on Sunday evening in Washington. On the agenda: forcing both the committee and the networks to address their concerns, including format (such as the debates’ length and whether candidates have opening statements) and airtime for each candidate. The Republican National Committee was not invited, though representatives from most campaigns are expected to attend. The candidates have also complained about perceived bias by the moderators (Senator Ted Cruz) and the line and tone of questioning (Mr. Trump). Jeb Bush’s campaign got into a heated confrontation with CNBC during the debate, arguing that the network was not giving its candidate equal airtime — a concern the national committee echoed. But the Republican Party finds itself in a tricky situation as it confronts the networks. The national committee inserted itself in the debate process, working with the networks on a schedule of  nine debates, after what was seen as a disorganized and harmful primary season in 2012. In that cycle, the schedule was perceived  as ultimately harming Mitt Romney, the party’s eventual nominee, by prolonging a fight in which, on the debate stage, he tried to make a $10,000 bet and favored “self-deportation” as a solution to illegal immigration. But in becoming the intermediary, many campaigns and party leaders believe the national committee  eliminated the leverage the campaigns would have had in negotiating with the networks. After the CNBC debate, Mr. Priebus raced to the spin room to criticize the network, but donors were already grumbling that one of the evening’s biggest losers was their party chairman. “Central planning never works,” said Gail Gitcho, senior adviser to Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana. “Debates are a crucial part of the democratic process, and we should have leverage with the networks, which isn’t afforded to us by the central planning.”  Of course, attacking the media, especially the so-called liberal media, is a popular and time-tested Republican trope. As the party has moved toward the conservative base, the candidates, by criticizing the press and debate moderators, have been able to score points with their core supporters while inoculating themselves from tough questions or criticism after a poor debate performance. Some NBC News officials privately believe the committee’s letter to NBC was simply a warning shot for public relations purposes that is likely to resolve itself before the Feb. 26 debate. In a statement, NBC News called the committee’s decision “a disappointing development.” “However, along with our debate broadcast partners at Telemundo, we will work in good faith to resolve this matter with the Republican Party,” Ali Zelenko, a spokeswoman for the network, said in a statement. In acting Friday against NBC, the national committee gave several key people at the network a 20-minute alert before Mr. Priebus blasted out his letter over social media, accusing CNBC of conducting the debate in “bad faith,” and suspending the network’s next debate at the University of Houston. “The R.N.C.’s sole role in the primary debate process is to ensure that our candidates are given a full and fair opportunity to lay out their vision for America’s future,” Mr. Priebus wrote. “We simply cannot continue with NBC without full consultation with our campaigns.” The national committee has said it remains committed to holding a debate on Feb. 26 and intends to work with National Review, the network’s conservative partner, to put on a debate as scheduled. But suspending its relationship with NBC News and Telemundo could prove particularly problematic for the national committee, which has been struggling to improve the party’s relations with Hispanic voters. On Friday, national committee operatives called the campaigns, alerting them of the letter to NBC and trying to get their backing. But not everyone was supportive. “They were more concerned with acting like the big dog,” said a Republican strategist who had spoken with the R.N.C. Mr. Carson’s campaign, a leader in the call for Sunday’s gathering, also spent Friday reaching out to the other campaigns trying to line up support for three key goals: fewer debates (no more than one per month), having all the candidates on stage and allowing longer opening and closing statements. “This is nothing but a TV show wrapped in commercials, with the political candidates as the talent,” Doug Watts, communications director for the Carson campaign, said. “Who is that serving?” It is unclear if the candidates will get their way. On Friday, Fox Business Network, which is hosting the next Republican debate in Wisconsin, released its rules for that event on Nov. 10; the candidates will not get an opening statement, but will have longer response time — 90 seconds for their initial answer, with a 60-second rebuttal. Both NBC News and CNBC are owned by Comcast’s NBC Universal, but NBC News is trying to distance itself from how CNBC handled its debate. CNBC is a separate division from NBC News and the cable news network MSNBC, and it was not included in Mr. Lack’s portfolio when he was hired in March to restore order to the news division in the midst of the Brian Williams scandal.  It is unclear what sort of consensus the Republicans could reach on Sunday, because not every campaign has the same goals for the debates. Candidates who perform well in debates are eager for more of them — and more substantive questions. Other campaigns, however, are likely to push for fewer. Emily Steel contributed reporting.