 DES MOINES – Gov. Terry E. Branstad of Iowa, a Republican and the longest-serving governor in American history, is something of a guardian of the Iowa presidential caucuses. So when he appeared Thursday at a breakfast sponsored by The Wall Street Journal, he had an opportunity to criticize Donald J. Trump for skipping Thursday night’s debate, the only one Iowa Republicans will host before next week’s caucuses. Mr. Branstad not only declined to bash Mr. Trump for his decision to hold a separate event in Des Moines at the same time as the debate, but he also marveled at what he described as the Trump phenomenon and predicted a record Republican turnout on Monday. “I’ll never forget the Iowa State Fair when he’s giving rides on his helicopter,” Mr. Branstad said, recalling a memorable moment from last summer. Mr. Trump’s rallies, he added, have had “phenomenal” turnouts. The governor did indicate that he would not have advised Mr. Trump to skip the debate, but pointed out that it would not be the first unconventional move the real estate mogul has made in this campaign. “He’s held up through all of this,” said Mr. Branstad, with a touch of wonder in his voice.  The governor’s decision to give Mr. Trump a degree of political cover comes as Senator Ted Cruz, Mr. Trump’s chief rival in Iowa polls, portrays Mr. Trump’s refusal to debate as an affront to Iowa voters.   And it is the second time this month that the ostensibly neutral Mr. Branstad, who was elected governor in 1982, has effectively come to the aid of Mr. Trump. The governor said earlier that Iowans should not support Mr. Cruz, arguing that the senator’s opposition to ethanol subsidies would hurt the Iowa economy. Mr. Branstad brought up that same issue again Thursday, but he had considerably less appetite to weigh in on Mr. Trump’s contentious views Asked by Gerald Seib of The Wall Street Journal if Mr. Trump was “exploiting the dark side of populism,” Mr. Branstad responded, “I’m not going to try to pass judgment on any of the candidates.” Mr. Branstad’s refusal to criticize Mr. Trump — and the appearance by the state’s veteran senator, Charles E. Grassley, another venerable Iowa Republican, at a rally with Mr. Trump last weekend — are a signal to establishment-aligned Republicans here that it is permissible to support the billionaire’s candidacy.   It is also a sign that the two canny Republicans recognize Mr. Trump has tapped into a powerful political current and do not want to find themselves crosswise with voters they may need. Mr. Grassley is running for re-election this year and Mr. Branstad may seek another term in 2018. The governor acknowledged on Thursday that Mr. Trump had been “able to effectively appeal to the concern that our leaders have not been effective” and even highlighted his slogan. “He wants to make America great again and I think that theme has resonated with a lot of people,” Mr. Branstad said.  As for whether he was concerned that Mr. Trump’s comments about Hispanics, veterans, Muslims and women could hurt the Republican Party in the general election, Mr. Branstad again took a pass. “Things change pretty rapidly in this business,” the governor said.   Then he quickly changed the topic to the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s email practices as secretary of state.