 Donald J. Trump is heading to Mexico on Wednesday to meet with President Enrique Peña Nieto, but one of the Mexican leader’s predecessors had a different message for the Republican presidential nominee: You are not welcome here. Vicente Fox, Mexico’s president from 2000 to 2006, said on Wednesday that the invitation from Mr. Peña Nieto was a mistake and that Mr. Trump should never be trusted in the country because of the way he has demonized its people. “He is not welcome to Mexico,” Mr. Fox told CNN. “We don’t want him. We reject his visit.” Mr. Fox has been critical of Mr. Trump’s plan to build a wall on the border between the United States and Mexico and on Wednesday he shrugged off recent signs of Mr. Trump softening his plans to deport 11 million undocumented immigrants. “You cannot trust a guy like this,” Mr. Fox said. “How can we grant confidence and support to ideas that change everyday? He cynically continues to disregard his own people and disregard Mexicans.” Despite Mr. Trump’s promises that Mexico will pay for his border wall, Mr. Fox vowed in February that it would never happen. He also called Mr. Trump a “false prophet” who was misleading his followers. On Wednesday, Mr. Fox expressed disbelief that Mr. Peña Nieto would invite Mr. Trump for the private meeting. He suggested that Mr. Trump was only coming as part of a “desperate” strategy to improve his sagging poll numbers and in explicit terms he urged Americans not to vote for him. “I cannot envision him sitting in that chair, that was the chair of President Washington, President Jefferson, President Kennedy, President Reagan,” Mr. Fox said. “He doesn’t know how to run a nation. He doesn’t even know how to run a business.” As he prepared to travel to Mexico, Mr. Trump responded to Mr. Fox’s attacks, noting on Twitter that the former Mexican president once suggested that he pay the country a visit. Mr. Fox fired back with a Twitter post of his own, reminding Mr. Trump that he invited him to come to Mexico and personally apologize to all Mexicans. “Stop lying!” Mr. Fox wrote. “Mexico is not yours to play with, show some respect.”