 Politics is a family business this week. Bill and Hillary Clinton have packed campaign schedules on Monday, with the former president holding two rallies in New Hampshire and Mrs. Clinton crisscrossing Iowa with three events there.  Mr. Clinton’s first solo outing on the campaign trail on his wife’s behalf comes as the Republican Donald J. Trump has intensified his attacks against the 42nd president. As Mr. Clinton talks up the economic successes of his administration at events in Nashua and Exeter, Mr. Trump will be campaigning near New Hampshire. “I’m the only one that’s willing to talk about his problems,” Mr. Trump told CBS News on Sunday. “I mean, what he did and what he has gone through I think is frankly terrible, especially if she wants to play the woman card.” So far, Mrs. Clinton has avoided responding directly to Mr. Trump’s attacks, instead putting the emphasis on his policy proposals like barring all Muslims from entering the United States. But that could change on Tuesday when she sits down for her first interview of the year, with MSNBC’s Chris Matthews, who will no doubt bring up Mr. Trump and Mr. Clinton’s past.  Despite drawing attention to the scandals of the 1990s, Mrs. Clinton needs her husband’s help in New Hampshire, where he remains widely popular and where she has trailed Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont in many recent polls. Before beginning a two-day “river to river” whirlwind tour of Iowa, Mrs. Clinton held three town-hall-style meeting in New Hampshire on Sunday, her first events of 2016.  But while she embarks on a breakneck schedule in the early states, Mrs. Clinton is clearly focused on defeating the Republicans. “We’re going to have a great debate in the general election,” she said on Sunday in Derry, N.H. “I can’t wait, you know, I really can’t.” At one point at Mrs. Clinton’s event in Derry on Sunday, someone began yelling. In a sign that Mr. Trump’s attacks may be seeping in, the woman, a Republican state representative, Katherine Prudhomme O’Brien, later told reporters that she had wanted to ask a question about the women who had accused Mr. Clinton of sexual harassment. “You are very rude, and I’m not going to ever call on you!” Mrs. Clinton told her, winning applause from the crowd.