 Updated, 8:58 p.m. | Donald J. Trump is opening a line of attack on Bill and Hillary Clinton, focusing on the former president’s impeachment and the Democratic presidential hopeful’s treatment of her husband’s accusers. At rallies on Saturday in Eugene, Ore., on Friday and in Spokane and Lynden, Wash., on Saturday, Mr. Trump suggested that the Clintons were not in a position to question his treatment of women. “There was nobody that was worse, nobody than Bill Clinton, with women,” Mr. Trump told the crowd in Spokane. “She’s married to a man who was impeached for lying,” Mr. Trump said of Mrs. Clinton. “He was impeached for lying about what happened with a woman. And she’s gonna take ads about little Donald Trump? I don’t know. I don’t think so.” Describing Mrs. Clinton as an “enabler,” he added, “Some of these women were destroyed, not by him, but by the way that Hillary Clinton treated them after everything went down.” Over the years, some people close to the Clintons have described Mrs. Clinton as involved in efforts to discredit a string of women who made accusations against Mr. Clinton, going back to his days as a governor of Arkansas. Mrs. Clinton’s allies see the issue as being pushed by Republicans looking to revive issues that have long been dormant, or that have been litigated publicly in the past. But Mr. Trump and some of his advisers believe that some younger voters are unfamiliar with those sagas, and will be troubled by them when they learn the details. The risk for Mr. Trump is that voters may rally around Mrs. Clinton if he raises the subject. Brian Fallon, a spokesman for Mrs. Clinton’s campaign, said in an email: “In a week in which Donald Trump casually suggested destabilizing the entire U.S. economy and cited his attendance at the Miss Universe pageant in Russia as proof of his foreign policy experience, of course he wants to try to change the subject.” “Hillary Clinton doesn’t care what he says about her,” he continued. “She will continue to call him out for his outrageous positions and divisive comments.” Democrats have made clear that they plan to resurrect in ads Mr. Trump’s comments over the years, including those on the Howard Stern radio show, belittling women for their appearance. In polls, Mr. Trump is facing negative ratings with women, largely over such comments. Mr. Trump said Saturday that some of his comments about women were simply “entertainment,” adding “two can play that game.” He also spoke about his well-publicized feud with Megyn Kelly, the Fox News anchor, that began after she questioned him about his treatment of women at the first Fox News debate. The following day, Mr. Trump told a CNN host that Ms. Kelly had blood “coming out of her eyes” and “blood coming out of her wherever,” a reference that many took to refer to menstruation. Mr. Trump insisted that only “dirty-minded” people took it that way, and that no one respects women more than he does. He noted that his displeasure with Ms. Kelly, with whom he has since made peace, had started after she questioned him for being critical of Rosie O’Donnell, whom he once called a “fat pig.” “Who the hell wouldn’t speak badly about Rosie O’Donnell?” he asked the crowd. Mr. Trump said that Mrs. Clinton is playing the “woman card” and that she would have “zero chance of winning” without that. Men, he said, are “petrified to speak to women anymore.” “The women get it better than we do, folks, alright?” he added. In Lynden, speaking before a massive American flag at a fairground, he also attacked Mrs. Clinton on a range of other issues, including her “trigger happy” foreign policy, ties to Wall Street and affinity with Senator Elizabeth Warren, who has been jousting with Mr. Trump on Twitter. He included a new, if factually incorrect, criticism of Mrs. Clinton on gun rights, claiming she wants to “abolish the Second Amendment.” “She wants to take the bullets away,” Mr. Trump said. Mrs. Clinton has campaigned on creating new gun control legislation, but has never said or inclined that she would “abolish” the Second Amendment.