 Microsoft will not provide cash donations to the Republican convention this summer, the company announced in a blog post on Friday, following lobbying from liberal organizations that have sought to pressure potential event sponsors ahead of Donald J. Trump’s increasingly likely presidential nomination. The company will provide only software and technical assistance to the Republicans’ event, while providing that and monetary support to the Democrats’. That represents a shift from 2012, when Microsoft provided a large cash donation to the Republican convention. Fred Humphries, the company’s vice president of government affairs in Washington, wrote that the decision was made last fall, in consultation with Republican officials, suggesting that Microsoft is eager to pre-empt suggestions that it is reacting to Mr. Trump’s inflammatory rhetoric on immigrants and women. “Based on our conversations with the Republican National Convention’s host committee and committee on arrangements, we decided last fall to provide a variety of Microsoft technology products and services instead of making a cash donation,” Mr. Humphries wrote. He added that “as we’ve explained to others, we’re not changing our planned activities for the conventions in 2016.” The announcement hints at the delicate position in which businesses find themselves as the real estate developer and former reality show star advances in the Republican primary. Many major corporations have in the past offered financial or other sponsorship to both party conventions, hoping to be helpful to the future president and his or her party while avoiding the appearance of partisanship. But in recent months, groups like Color of Change, which had led a coalition of Latino, Jewish, Muslim and women’s rights organizations, have seized on Mr. Trump’s campaign to pressure companies into steering clear of the Republican event. They have organized petition campaigns and — as in the case of Microsoft — met privately with corporate executives. “Microsoft took an important step forward today by standing against Republican front-runner Donald Trump’s bigotry and declining to provide cash support for the Republican National Convention,” said Rashad Robinson, the executive director of Color of Change. Mr. Robinson called on the company to suspend technical support as well. “It is unacceptable for our country’s leading corporations to sponsor Trump’s hateful, violent rhetoric and policies, which threaten their consumers,” said Mr. Robinson. Coca-Cola, which is based in Atlanta, has responded by scaling back financial commitments to both parties’ conventions. But Google, also the subject of activists’ lobbying, has announced that it plans to livestream both party conventions. Mr. Robinson said in an interview that he and other activists had had multiple conversations with Microsoft executives in recent days leading up to the announcement.  “If there was a decision made a year ago, they could have released this blog the minute our campaign started,” said Mr. Robinson.