 VIRGINIA BEACH, Va. — Donald J. Trump is certain that Secretary of State John Kerry has not read his 1987 best-seller on business. And, Mr. Trump added, the nation’s top diplomat might not even have read another popular book that’s been around far longer. “Obviously Kerry did not read ‘The Art of the Deal,’” Mr. Trump said, speaking at Regent University here on Wednesday. “Probably didn’t read the Bible, either.” Mr. Trump has bristled about questions about his faith — last week he called it “disgraceful” that Pope Francis had suggested that his call to build a wall along the Mexican border was “not Christian.” Mr. Trump, fresh off winning the Nevada caucuses on Tuesday, his third consecutive victory in the early nominating contests, made his remarks during a  wide-ranging conversation with Pat Robertson, the televangelist who founded Regent, an evangelical institution. Before criticizing Mr. Kerry, Mr. Trump praised ‘The Art of the Deal,” but was quick to add: “I always say the Bible is much better. That’s not a contest, right?” Mr. Trump also attacked Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, the only Republican candidate who has beaten him in a nominating contest so far, winning the Iowa caucuses to Mr. Trump’s second. Asked what criteria he would use to choose a justice for the Supreme Court, Mr. Trump said “pro-life,” before using the question to go after Mr. Cruz for championing Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. — who has twice voted to uphold President Obama’s health care law — when he was nominated to the court in 2005. “By the way, I will tell you that Senator Cruz was the one that pushed him,” Mr. Trump said. “He was the one that most wanted him. In fact, he wrote editorials saying: ‘You gotta have Roberts. You gotta have Roberts.’” (Writing in National Review at the time, Mr. Cruz, then the solicitor general of Texas, said Mr. Roberts should be “a quick confirm.”) “So Senator Cruz gave us Obamacare in a true sense,” Mr. Trump concluded. Mr. Trump is not the first candidate to speak at Regent University. Both Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida, and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio appeared there last year, and Mr. Cruz is scheduled to visit on Friday. Ben Carson, the retired pediatric neurosurgeon, is to speak next week. Mr. Robertson endorsed former Mayor Rudy Giuliani of New York, who supports abortion rights, in the 2008 presidential campaign. Some of Mr. Trump’s allies believe that Mr. Robertson may ultimately support him as well.