 With Congress so unpopular, most Republican presidential candidates are intent on bashing the institution and its members. Not so with Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, who served 18 years in the House before leaving in 2001 and evidently has fond memories of his Capitol Hill years. While others pound Washington, Mr. Kasich has played up relationships forged on Capitol Hill, sometimes reaching far back. On Wednesday, for instance, Mr. Kasich, a former Budget Committee chairman, celebrated his endorsement by former Representative Chuck Douglas of New Hampshire, a Republican who served one term in the House more than 25 years ago. “I had the honor of serving in Congress with John and can personally attest that he is a man of ideas, integrity and enthusiasm,” Mr. Douglas, who left the House in 1991, said in a statement. Mr. Kasich has surrounded himself with former Hill allies such as Trent Lott, the former Republican leader who left in 2007. And he has heralded backing from former Senators Al D’Amato of New York (defeated in 1998) and Ben Nighthorse Campbell, the Colorado Democrat turned Republican who left in 2005. In New Hampshire, he has no doubt benefited from the backing of the former Republican senators Gordon Humphrey (1990 exit) and John E. Sununu, who was defeated in 2008. In the recent debate, Mr. Kasich also name-checked Senator Strom Thurmond, the onetime segregationist presidential candidate from South Carolina who left the Senate at age 100 in 2003, and waxed about balancing the budget with former Senator Pete Domenici, the New Mexico Republican and former Budget Committee chairman who departed in 2008. It reached the point that former Representative John D. Dingell, the 89-year-old who announced his retirement from the House in 2014 after nearly 60 years, poked fun at Mr. Kasich on Twitter, though he called him a “nice fella” who appears more “levelheaded” than his competitors. “John Kasich tells more ‘back in my day’ rocking chair stories than me or anyone I know,” Mr. Dingell said, “and I was born during the Coolidge administration.”
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.