 As Donald J. Trump danced to “Hotline Bling,” several of his Republican rivals were preparing a legal dance of their own. After Mr. Trump hosted “Saturday Night Live” this month, appearing on screen for 12 minutes and 5 seconds, other presidential campaigns were entitled to file for “equal opportunities” on the network. So, the campaigns of Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, Mike Huckabee and George E. Pataki have all sent letters to NBC, requesting the equal time. Federal Communications Commission regulations state that other candidates for president are entitled to “equal time” on the network when a broadcast event isn’t a “bona fide newscast,” “bona fide news interview,” “bona fide news documentary” or “on-the-spot coverage of bona fide news events.” By law, NBC is not required to give them exactly the same treatment as that received by Mr. Trump, meaning that there will probably not be a Mike Huckabee-hosted “S.N.L.” anytime in the near future. The network is just required to give equal time for the candidates to reach a relatively equal audience. Often, the campaigns and the networks will negotiate a deal behind the scenes, be it for advertising spots or spots on certain affiliate stations. As CNN reported on Monday, Mr. Graham requested just seven stations that broadcast in Iowa and New Hampshire. Mr. Pataki went to 16 outlets in New Hampshire, South Carolina, Iowa and New York. Mr. Kasich, however, said his team was working to “satisfy this request at the network and/or affiliate level.” Mr. Trump’s screen time was very limited for a typical host of “S.N.L.” Both Amy Schumer and Miley Cyrus, who hosted episodes in October, were on screen for more than 20 minutes, evidence that NBC was aware of, and perhaps expecting, some requests for equal time. The network also used some creative ways to keep Mr. Trump off the screen but still present. During one sketch, Mr. Trump “live-tweeted” his review as it was going on, with just the candidate’s infamous Twitter account gracing the screen.