 Updated, 9:09 p.m. | Demonstrators protesting the appearance of Donald J. Trump at a Republican Party event Thursday night reached a peak of around 1,000, but their ranks thinned and a splinter group of about 100 marchers headed into Midtown Manhattan. The crowds had flocked in and around the Grand Hyatt New York to protest Mr. Trump’s arrival at the New York State Republican Gala. Mr. Trump’s fellow Republican presidential candidates, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, were also expected.  Around 8 p.m., the crowd began dispersing, but a breakaway group marched north on Fifth Avenue, with police officers following. At one point the group crossed through Rockefeller Center. Two protesters were taken into custody on West 49th Street in front of the Ambassador Theater. On Fifth Avenue, tourists sitting atop a double-decker bus leaned forward and peered down at the marchers. Earlier in the evening, about 100 protesters marched around Grand Central Terminal, carrying red and black flags symbolic of anarchism. They went into the MetLife building and then roamed through the terminal, chanting “Stand up, fight back” and “Donald Trump, KKK, racist, sexist, antigay.” A large contingent of police officers followed the demonstrators. Eventually the crowd exited the terminal and marched east on 42nd Street toward the hotel. When they encountered Trump supporters, they chanted, “Nazi scum, off our streets.” Early on, one demonstrator, Zachary Wilson, 34, of Brooklyn, stood with a sign raised high. It read “Smash Trump!” and included a quote from the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. that said, “We should never forget that everything Adolf Hitler did in Germany was legal.” Mr. Wilson said he was on the Upper West Side on Tuesday visiting his grandmother when he overheard two people in a Starbucks talking about the protest. He learned more about it on Facebook and decided to show up in support, he said. “He’s not for the American people. He’s only for people like himself,” Mr. Wilson said, referring to Mr. Trump.  One demonstrator said he was punched in the face by a Trump supporter.  Michael Bento, 31, said he was struck by the man on East 42nd Street. He rubbed his bloodied lower lip gingerly.   Mr. Bento, who lives in Harlem, said that the man, in a red pro-Trump hat, had appeared and that he had said to the man, “Please leave, sir.” “Then he punched me in the face with his fist,” Mr. Bento said. As he walked with other Trump protesters, Mr. Bento, who is black, said, “I feel like it’s an example of exactly what Trump stands for: violence against people of color.” It was not immediately clear what happened to the man accused of punching Mr. Bento. Around 9 p.m., a Police Department spokeswoman could not provide a number of arrests. 