 Senator Bernie Sanders praised President Obama on Wednesday for being “evenhanded” in the Democratic primary campaign after the two men met for more than 45 minutes in the Oval Office. The face-to-face meeting, coming just days before voters in Iowa gather to caucus on Monday, gave Mr. Sanders a rare chance to showcase a relationship with the president that has been a frequent feature of his chief rival, Hillary Clinton. “What the president has tried to do, what Vice President Biden has tried to do, is to be as evenhanded as they could be,” Mr. Sanders said at a brief news conference outside the West Wing. Noting that some people viewed a recent interview by Mr. Obama as supportive of Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Sanders said: “I don’t believe that at all. I think he and the vice president have tried to be fair and evenhanded in the process, and I expect they will continue to be.” Asked whether he thought that Mrs. Clinton had overplayed her closeness to the president, Mr. Sanders said, “I think the people of Iowa will make that decision in a few days.” With polls suggesting a tight race in Iowa, Mr. Sanders called it a “very tough campaign” but expressed optimism that he could defeat Mrs. Clinton if enough of his supporters in the state brave the cold and participate in the caucuses. “What the Iowa campaign ends up being about is one word, and that is turnout,” he said. “We are feeling really good about where we are.” Referring to Mr. Obama’s Iowa campaign in 2008, in which many first-time caucusgoers drove up overall turnout, Mr. Sanders said: “I’m not saying that we could do what Barack Obama did in 2008. I wish we could, but I don’t think we can.” He added, “But if there is a large turnout, I think we win. If not, I think we are going to be struggling.” Mr. Sanders called the meeting with the president “positive and constructive” and said they discussed domestic and international issues and “occasionally a little bit of politics.” He declined to provide other details of the conversation, but conceded that he had had disagreements with Mr. Obama at times during the past seven years, naming taxes and the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement as examples. But he also said that “by and large, over the last seven years on major issue after major issue, I have stood by his side as he has taken on unprecedented Republican obstructionism.” Mr. Sanders did say that they discussed the strategy for defeating the Islamic State, and that he supported the president’s approach. “What he is trying to do is keep our young men and women in the military out of a perpetual war in the quagmire of the Middle East,” Mr. Sanders said. “What he has tried to do, what I will try to do. is put together a coalition of the major powers, with the Muslim people.” White House officials declined to provide details about the meeting, but Josh Earnest, the White House spokesman, said the tough primary fight between Mr. Sanders and Mrs. Clinton was a positive process. “It’s good for our democracy,” he said. “It’s also good for the party.”