 Jim Gilmore suspended his presidential campaign on Friday, ending a bid for the Republican nomination that never managed to gain traction with the American public. No one expected Mr. Gilmore, 66, the former governor of Virginia, to even make it this far. He sometimes did not earn a spot on the so-called undercard debate stage, and his poll numbers were often so small they rounded to 0 percent. But Mr. Gilmore — whom many voters could probably not identify by name or sight — is the embodiment of the truth that it is actually remarkably easy to run for president alone, with little to no infrastructure, plodding along. With another Republican debate looming on Saturday that Mr. Gilmore did not qualify for, he said enough was enough. “My campaign was intended to offer the gubernatorial experience, with the track record of a true conservative, experienced in national security, to unite the party.” Mr. Gilmore said in a statement. “My goal was to focus on the importance of this election as a real turning point, and to emphasize the dangers of continuing on a road that will further undermine America’s economy and weaken our national security.” Mr. Gilmore was invited to participate in a debate last month in Iowa, and his frustration with the process was evident when he lampooned the news media for failing to take his candidacy seriously and for impeding his message from reaching voters. However, he continued to express optimism that he would eventually be president. Nonetheless, after receiving just 133 votes in New Hampshire on Tuesday — the Republican winner, Donald J. Trump, won with more than 100,000 — Mr. Gilmore finally abandoned his long-shot bid. “I will continue to express my concerns about the dangers of electing someone who has pledged to continue Obama’s disastrous policies,” Mr. Gilmore said. “And, I will continue to do everything I can to ensure that our next president is a free enterprise Republican who will restore our nation to greatness and keep our citizens safe.”