 Chris Christie’s long-shot presidential campaign got a lift on Saturday night with the endorsement of  The New Hampshire Union Leader, an influential paper in the state where the New Jersey governor has camped out in the hopes of catching fire.  The newspaper’s endorsement, coming 10 weeks before the first-in-the-nation primary, arrived earlier than it had in the past two election cycles involving crowded Republican primary fields.  The endorsement, however, was framed in terms of the changed landscape of the 2016 presidential race in the wake of the Nov. 13 terrorist attacks in Paris, the aftermath of which Mr. Christie has pointed to as a moment for which his skill set is perfectly matched. And it is the strongest suggestion of the vibrancy of a candidate who has fought for survival in a sprawling field, after the so-called Bridgegate scandal in New Jersey dampened his national prospects and hindered his standing in the polls and in fund-raising.  “Mr. Christie is right for these dangerous times,” wrote Joseph W. McQuaid, the paper’s publisher, in the endorsement editorial. At another point, he wrote: “As a U.S. attorney and then a big-state governor, he is the one candidate who has the range and type of experience the nation desperately needs.”  The support for Mr. Christie is a blow to two other candidates vying for establishment backing and casting themselves as the grown-ups in a field of first-term senators and political neophytes: Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida, and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio. For both men, New Hampshire is seen by many as a must-win.  Mr. McQuaid seemed eager to recast the terms of the debate, taking veiled swipes in his editorial at some of the other candidates.  “We don’t need another fast-talking, well-meaning freshman U.S. senator trying to run the government,” he wrote, in a reference that seemed largely aimed at Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, but which could also apply to Senators Ted Cruz of Texas and Rand Paul of Kentucky. “We are still seeing the disastrous effects of the last such choice.”  As for Ben Carson and Carly Fiorina, the former Hewlett-Packard executive, he wrote, again without naming anyone, “We don’t need as president some well-meaning person from the private sector who has no public experience.”  In a line that seemed aimed squarely at Donald J. Trump, who has been trying for a week to justify his claim that he watched “thousands and thousands” of people cheering in New Jersey on Sept. 11, 2001, as the World Trade Center was attacked by terrorists, Mr. McQuaid wrote: “Other candidates have gained public and media attention by speaking bluntly. But it’s important when you are telling it like it is to actually know what you are talking about. Gov. Christie knows what he is saying because he has experienced it. And unlike some others, he believes in what he says because he has a strong set of conservative values.”  Mr. Christie, a former United States attorney, “has prosecuted terrorists and dealt admirably with major disasters,” he added.  The paper has a mixed record with recent endorsements; in 2012, The Union Leader supported Newt Gingrich, the former speaker of the House who was running against Mitt Romney. The Union Leader had often taken issue with Mr. Romney, who ultimately won the state’s primary by a large plurality.  But in 2008, support from The Union Leader helped another fallen front-runner who ultimately fought back to win the Republican nomination: Senator John McCain of Arizona.  In both cases, the endorsement fell around this time of year, but those primaries were held almost a month earlier than next year’s contest, which will take place in early February.  Just as Mr. McCain did, Mr. Christie has staked his fortunes on the vote in New Hampshire, banking that his raw political talents will fare well in a state in which voters have become accustomed to repeated, in-person contact with candidates.  Mr. Christie, whose campaign once seemed hopeless, has sought to capitalize on the wide-open nature of the current race in New Hampshire. With relatively little fanfare, he has become a force there over the past six months, spending 50 days in the state and rolling out endorsements from more than 100 local leaders. In the process, he has begun to reverse negative perceptions that have pervaded his poll numbers there and elsewhere. In the past few weeks, polls have showed that more than half of likely Republican primary voters in New Hampshire have a favorable view of him, up significantly from a few months ago.  Michael Barbaro contributed reporting.