 For the current leaders of the long march toward the 2016 presidential nominations, Tuesday will be either the beginning of the end, or the end of the beginning. Donald J. Trump could have a banner night, winning primaries in both Florida and Ohio and becoming unstoppable on the way to the nomination. Or, as is more likely, the night will be inconclusive, with different candidates winning different states, denying Mr. Trump a clear path to the 1,237 delegates needed to lock up the convention. Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio is leading in some polls in his state and could keep his candidacy alive there. Marco Rubio, who is trailing in Florida, could be driven from the race with a loss. Hillary Clinton could have a great night, winning Ohio and Florida easily over Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. Or they could split those states, with less certain outcomes in Illinois, Missouri and North Carolina. Mrs. Clinton’s trajectory toward sewing up her party’s nomination is far clearer than Mr. Trump’s. But the reality is that if Mr. Trump wins Florida, and wins decisively, it will become very hard to stop him.  So the focus will now fall to Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who is reviled by many of his Republican colleagues for his role in the 2013 government shutdown. Mr. Cruz is about 100 delegates behind Mr. Trump, and he hopes to win some states on Tuesday and finish second in enough others to position himself as the only alternative.  The night’s results will also be a test of whether Mr. Trump has taken on water after his slow disavowal of the former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke, and his refusal to take responsibility for the violent turn that some of his rallies have taken, particularly in Chicago on Friday. A candidate who has won a dozen states can usually grow his voter pool, but if Mr. Trump remains below 40 percent in most states, it would indicate he has cauterized his base of support.   As for Mrs. Clinton, a loss in Ohio, a state where she famously demanded that Barack Obama meet her for a primary showdown in the 2008 race, would propel the questions about her ability to win white working-class voters. For a candidate who said in that 2008 race that she was fighting for “hard-working Americans, white Americans,” it has been a surprising turn of events. 