 Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska reeled off a stream of Twitter messages going after Donald J. Trump on Monday night, questioning the candidate’s flip-flopping on gun rights and health care policy, his expansive view of presidential power – and his well-publicized history of bedroom exploits. Mr. Sasse, a first-term lawmaker with close ties to the elite conservative intelligentsia, delivered a 19-tweet critique of Mr. Trump, framed as a series of questions to the Republican  about his inconstant views on issues of substance. His fourth question, however, raised Mr. Trump’s “many affairs w/ married women.” — Ben Sasse (@BenSasse) January 25, 2016  “Have you repented?” Mr. Sasse asked. “To harmed children &amp; spouses? Do you think it matters?” Mr. Trump has described himself often in the past as a man of Don Juan-like romantic charisma, and has detailed his sexual adventures in some detail in media interviews. He has not emphasized that part of his life experience in running for president, stressing instead his love for his wife and children, and his reverence for the Bible. By questioning Mr. Trump’s view of marriage and the family, Mr. Sasse, whose state neighbors Iowa, is  injecting an issue into the race that has gone almost unmentioned by activists and party leaders. Iowa’s Republican voters have typically gravitated toward candidates who emphasize their religious identities and support for traditional family values. So far, leading Christian activists, including leaders in Iowa, have largely avoided raising Mr. Trump’s personal life in the campaign. And Jerry Falwell Jr., the president of Liberty University, an evangelical bastion, praised Mr. Trump in lavish terms at an event there on Martin Luther King’s Birthday when the candidate gave the convocation.  In his Twitter spree, Mr. Sasse acknowledged that Mr. Trump has dominated the presidential race on the Republican side. Mr. Trump, he said, was “very talented” and the “likely next POTUS.”  — Ben Sasse (@BenSasse) January 25, 2016  Mr. Trump’s campaign did not immediately return a request for comment.