 Virginia Republicans do not appear to be interested in Donald J. Trump’s advice on how to run their primary election next year. Mr. Trump scolded state officials this week for requiring Republican primary voters to sign a “statement of affiliation” when they go to the polls affirming that they are indeed Republicans. Worried that such a policy could deter unaffiliated voters, who could be more likely to back Mr. Trump, he said the party was making a “suicidal mistake” that would disenfranchise new voters. “The voters the Republican Party of Virginia are excluding will doom any chance of victory,” Mr. Trump said. “The Dems love it! Be smart and win for a change!” Mr. Trump said that Virginia Republicans had repeatedly lost statewide elections and that they would continue to do so if they tried to limit voting to registered Republicans. National polls show Mr. Trump winning the support of nearly 40 percent of Republican primary voters, but he is banking on being able to draw new people who are frustrated by traditional politics. Some states, however, have turned to ballot pledges or restrictions to prevent voters from opposing parties from meddling in primaries. David Ramadan, a Republican in the Virginia House of Delegates, said that Mr. Trump’s money and aggressive tactics would not influence the state party to change its plan. “In his own words, he gives to politicians since he expects something in return,” Mr. Ramadan said in an interview. “What’s he expecting from Terry McAuliffe? Is he expecting Democratic votes in the primary?” However, it is Mr. Trump’s history in the state rather than his tone that has dented his credibility on the issue. In 2009, he donated $25,000 to the first campaign of Gov. Terry McAuliffe, a Democrat who lost that campaign but won four years later. Mr. Trump has defended his donations to Democrats in the past, claiming that as a businessman it behooved him to give money to lawmakers from both parties. Last summer, he traveled to Virginia for a ribbon-cutting at the Albemarle Estate, a hotel and winery that he recently built near Charlottesville.