 Updated, 1:26 p.m. | Donald J. Trump is taking some heat for taking a snow day four days before the New Hampshire primary. The Republican presidential candidate canceled a town-hall-style event at the Londonderry Lions Club on Friday, citing “weather and airports being closed.” The region is getting five to eight inches of snow, but the airports in nearby Manchester, N.H., and at Logan Airport in Boston were still open on Friday. The snow was coming down lightly in New York, where Mr. Trump lives. Other candidates carried out their campaign events as planned on Friday and some suggested that Mr. Trump’s cancellation showed his lack of commitment to the state. The billionaire businessman, who usually travels on his private jet, tends to fly home to his Manhattan penthouse after each day on the campaign trail. He has said he often needs to attend to company business in the mornings. But Rick Tyler, a spokesman for Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, suggested that Mr. Trump was not taking New Hampshire seriously. “Everyone likes to go home at night but those who don’t show a commitment to winning will lose,” Mr. Tyler said. Mr. Trump has mocked former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida for months as being “low energy,” but on Friday a spokesman for the Bush campaign said that Mr. Trump might be too much of a homebody to fight for the nomination. “Donald’s need to tweet in his slippers every night in Manhattan demonstrates a lack of commitment to earning every vote that Jeb has demonstrated here in New Hampshire and across the country,” said Tim Miller, a spokesman for Mr. Bush. The former Florida governor also took note personally, pointing out in a post on Twitter that his 90 year-old mother, Barbara, managed to make it out and campaign in New Hampshire despite the snow.  Several other people on social media remarked that the region’s airports remained open and that Mr. Trump could have found another way to make it to New Hampshire, given his resources. But Liz Mair, a Republican strategist who has been organizing an advertising campaign against Mr. Trump, joked that being easily snowed out could be a sign that he is a good fit for Washington. — Liz Mair (@LizMair) February 5, 2016  The Trump campaign said that the Friday event would be rescheduled and that Mr. Trump will campaign in New Hampshire on Saturday, Sunday, Monday and during the primary voting on Tuesday.