 Updated, 11:01 p.m. | DAVENPORT, Iowa – On a day Hillary Rodham Clinton and Jeb Bush scheduled campaign events a few miles apart, Mrs. Clinton jabbed at two Bushes — the one running for president and the brother who once had the job. Mrs. Clinton disparaged Mr. Bush’s “stuff happens” comment about gun violence, and she repeatedly invoked what she considers the policy failures of George W. Bush’s presidency, including deep tax cuts for the wealthy and an effort to privatize Social Security. Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Bush circled each other in Iowa on Tuesday as the struggling standard-bearers of their parties’ establishments. Both were once seen as likely general election opponents. Now they each face serious challenges from populist outsiders. At a town hall-style event in Davenport, Mrs. Clinton staked out several positions — reining in Wall Street and supporting gun control and ambitious public works projects, for example — that seemed influenced by the Democratic Party’s leftward shift in recent years. Later in the day, she said she had sent every Republican candidate a copy of her book “Hard Choices” after Carly Fiorina and others questioned what she had accomplished as secretary of state. “There are so many of them,” she said, referring to the 15 candidates in the Republican field, “they could have a book club.” The Bush campaign quickly hit back over Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server in the State Department, and suggested that she read Mr. Bush’s book “Reply All” when it is published in a few weeks. “The book, based on Governor Bush’s emails while in office, is a good lesson on the importance of transparency in government,” said a campaign spokeswoman, Kristy Campbell, who added that Mr. Bush had not received Mrs. Clinton’s book. Mr. Bush, setting off on his longest Iowa swing as a candidate, is hoping to deepen his support in a state where he has few natural advantages — and the poll numbers to prove it. Before his scheduled remarks Tuesday evening at the Scott County Republicans annual Ronald Reagan Dinner in Bettendorf, Mr. Bush’s campaign announced a handful of new endorsements in the state, including one from Mayor Steve Gaer of West Des Moines, a former Scott Walker supporter whose blessing had been sought by other candidates appealing to Main Street Republicans. At the event, Mr. Bush, repeating an argument he made in an op-ed article in The Des Moines Register on Tuesday, took up the difficult task of casting himself as an outsider, disparaging Washington as a city where “home prices never dropped during the financial crisis.” “Washington is doing fine,” he told the crowd. “What we need to do is disrupt Washington.” He also repeated his plan to dock the pay of federal lawmakers who miss votes, in what has been viewed as a swipe at Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who has missed them frequently. “They should go to the committee hearings; they should vote,” Mr. Bush said. Mrs. Clinton promised to unveil proposals next week to “go after Wall Street abuses” and hold banks and individuals responsible for “their bad behavior,” an issue that regularly stirs loud applause at the rallies of Senator Bernie Sanders, the Vermont independent who is challenging her for the Democratic presidential nomination. Despite benefiting from the support of wealthy Democratic donors on Wall Street, Mrs. Clinton approvingly noted that Ben S. Bernanke, the former Federal Reserve chairman, said while promoting his new memoir that “people should have gone to jail” after the financial crisis of 2008. On gun control, where Mr. Sanders has been skeptical of the push for new restrictions, Mrs. Clinton seemed to have both him and Mr. Bush in mind when she disparaged Mr. Bush’s comment, after the shooting massacre last week at an Oregon community college, that “stuff happens.” “This doesn’t just happen,” Mrs. Clinton said. “This isn’t stuff that happens. We let it happen, and we have to act.” In a lighter moment, Mrs. Clinton was asked by an attendee to do her impression of Mr. Trump that she debuted on “Saturday Night Live” over the weekend. Mrs. Clinton obliged. “Oh, you’re a loser,” she said in a deep voice, to laughter. But the challenge of Mr. Trump and the other outsiders of both parties — for Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Bush as well — was illustrated by an attendee at the Clinton event, Jerry Propps, a retired truck driver. Although Mr. Propps said he was making up his mind between Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders, he acknowledged he was also drawn to issues that Mr. Trump had highlighted: the loss of manufacturing jobs to China and immigration. “When it comes to allowing illegal immigrants in this country, I’m sorry to say, I’m with Trump on that,” he said. Coincidentally, Mrs. Clinton’s itinerary on Tuesday, from Davenport to Muscatine, retraced the route of Mr. Sanders during a visit to Iowa in May, when a crowd of 700 was an early warning to the Clinton campaign of his nascent support here. Mrs. Clinton, eclipsed by Mr. Sanders in New Hampshire polls, is still hanging on to a slender margin in Iowa. “I think a lot of people are looking at Bernie Sanders, but I don’t think hardly anyone is going to vote for him,” said a Clinton supporter, Bob Sanderson, a retired Army veteran, in Davenport. “They like what he’s saying right now; nobody thinks he can win in a general election.”