 MIAMI — Senator Ted Cruz received the endorsement of  Senator Mike Lee of Utah on Thursday, netting Mr. Cruz the public support of a Senate colleague for the first time. The endorsement provides a counterpoint to the criticisms leveled against Mr. Cruz by opponents like Donald J. Trump, who has reveled in the fact that the Texas lawmaker could not attract the support of a single senator for much of the campaign. It is also a blow to Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who is friendly with Mr. Lee, as Mr. Rubio strains to catch Mr. Trump before Tuesday’s Florida primary vote. At a news conference at the site of Thursday evening’s Republican debate in Coral Gables, Fla., Mr. Lee said it was “time to unite” behind the candidate best-positioned, in his view, to catch Mr. Trump. Asked if Mr. Rubio should leave the race, Mr. Lee said he “would encourage him — and I do encourage him — to get behind Ted Cruz.” Mr. Lee said he had spoken to Mr. Rubio before the announcement but declined to characterize the conversation. He added that he expected other senators to follow his lead in backing Mr. Cruz, who did not appear with Mr. Lee on Thursday. “He is the only Republican candidate who can defeat Donald Trump and who can defeat Hillary Clinton, and I believe he will,” Mr. Lee said, noting that he had held regular discussions with his colleagues in the hope that more will join him in backing the Texas senator. While Mr. Lee declined to openly criticize Mr. Trump, he said he worried about his policy positions and views on presidential power. “I’m still waiting to hear more detail from Donald Trump on where he stands on a whole host of issues,” Mr. Lee said. Mr. Lee has appeared with both Mr. Cruz and Mr. Rubio during the campaign and has expressed concern with the tenor of the race. “It’s not easy to see them fighting,” he said last month outside a barbecue restaurant in South Carolina, where Mr. Cruz was set to hold an event. Mr. Lee is admired by the conservative base for his anti-spending positions, and Mr. Cruz had long coveted his endorsement. The men had a spat last year during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing, after Mr. Cruz argued that measures proposed by Mr. Lee would weaken punishments for violent offenders. Mr. Lee called that a mischaracterization. The moment seems to have passed, and now Mr. Cruz, a day after announcing the endorsement of Carly Fiorina, is better positioned to make the case that the primary is becoming a two-man race. Even longtime skeptics of Mr. Cruz, like Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, have begun to express an openness to his candidacy — if only because many establishment Republicans see him as more palatable than Mr. Trump.