 Ben Carson, whose campaign has come under increasing stress as his polling numbers have declined, suggested on Wednesday a major shake-up was coming, only to seemingly reverse himself hours later. “My senior team remains in place with my full confidence,’’ Mr. Carson, the Republican presidential contender, said in a statement issued by his campaign spokesman late in the day. In interviews with reporters earlier at his Maryland home, Mr. Carson had suggested the opposite, declaring “Everything is on the table, every job is on the table.” The Associated Press, which reported Mr. Carson’s earlier remarks, said he had spoken without the knowledge of his campaign manager, Barry Bennett. The Washington Post reported Mr. Carson complained that his top aides were overpaid and that his campaign was not spending money efficiently. But in his later statement, Mr. Carson’s played down any suggestion that heads would roll. “I have one-hundred percent confidence in my campaign team,’’ he said. “We have come a long way and accomplished great things together, and together we look forward to winning in Iowa and beyond. We are refining some operational practices and streamlining some staff assignments to more aptly match the tasks ahead.’’ In October, Mr. Carson jumped to a 10-point lead in Iowa and matched Donald J. Trump nationally in polls. But ever since the terrorist attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif., questions about his grasp of foreign policy and projection of strength have led to a reversal of fortune. He has fallen to fourth in polls in Iowa and in national polls. Mr. Carson has tried to bolster his credibility with a visit Syrian refugees in Jordan and the roll out of a team of national security advisers. Though it is clear in interviews and debates that Mr. Carson has acquired a deeper knowledge of the Middle East, his introspective manner and roundabout pattern of speech have proved no match for the strenuous postures of toughness struck by Mr. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz. “The key thing for me right now is just to dispel the rumor that I don’t know anything about foreign policy,” Mr. Carson told reporters in New Hampshire on Monday. Staff changes at the top of struggling campaigns are common, but the dysfunction of the Carson campaign has played out openly. His manager, Mr. Bennett, and a spokesman, Doug Watts, have publicly feuded with an outside adviser, Armstrong Williams, a longtime Carson friend who has Mr. Carson’s ear. Another longtime friend, Terry Giles, hired Mr. Bennett and other operatives but was exiled from the campaign over internal differences. Mr. Giles on Wednesday said he was not in any talks to return to Mr. Carson’s side. Asked on if he thought Mr. Carson was being well served by his staff, Mr. Giles said in a text message, “Ask me that question in two weeks.’’