 ANKENY, Iowa — Such is the state of the 2016 election that the following, apparently, needs to be said: “I have no intention of shooting anybody in this campaign,” Ted Cruz told reporters here on Saturday, with a now-official attack dog at his side. That figure, the radio host Glenn Beck, was less circumspect in his appraisal of Donald J. Trump, who hours earlier had joked that he could open fire in the middle of Fifth Avenue without losing support. “This kind of hubris,” Mr. Beck said gravely, “is beyond imagination.” The dig was among the first of Mr. Beck’s self-appointed duties as a full-fledged supporter of Mr. Cruz — a decision, Mr. Beck said, that came after a lifetime of refraining from presidential endorsements. Mr. Beck has long been a fierce defender of Mr. Cruz on the airwaves. Appearing at a mostly full college gymnasium here, Mr. Beck delivered a forceful case for Mr. Cruz as the only viable option for conservatives hoping to elect one of their own, by turns praising the Texas senator’s hard-right credentials and warning of the perils of an Iowa caucus victory for Mr. Trump. “If Donald Trump wins, it’s going to be a snowball to hell,” Mr. Beck said. Frequently invoking faith and United States history, Mr. Beck contrasted Mr. Cruz with the man he is chasing in national polls and hoping to outlast in Iowa: “It’s not a guy who’s a bunch of strip clubs and casinos.” Throughout the gathering, Mr. Cruz and Mr. Beck alluded to the left-leaning positions of Mr. Trump for much of his life, from his history of support for abortion rights to political contributions to Democrats like Anthony Weiner and Rahm Emanuel. “In 2016, we cannot get burned again,” Mr. Cruz said, in the throes of a particularly animated stump speech nine days before the voting begins. He noted Mr. Trump’s support for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, known as TARP or more commonly the bank bailout, and for President Obama’s stimulus plan, among other issues, suggesting Mr. Trump stood little chance of effecting conservative change in Washington. “Nobody on earth ever grew a backbone after they got into 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue,” Mr. Cruz said. “Is there any chance on earth that individual would actually stand up to the cronyism and cartel in Washington?” He also took aim at Mr. Trump’s signature issue, his hard line on immigration. Mr. Cruz suggested his own position was stronger because Mr. Trump has said that, after carrying out a mass deportation, he would grant legal status to some undocumented immigrants who sought to return. “Listen, I like Donald Trump. He may say unpleasant things about me, I have no intention of responding in kind,” said Mr. Cruz, whose campaign on Friday released an ad attacking Mr. Trump’s use of eminent domain. “I don’t think you want or deserve to see politicians engaging in name-calling and insults. But I do think substance matters.” The event with Mr. Beck resembled a rebuttal of sorts to the endorsement of Mr. Trump by Sarah Palin, the former Alaska governor and vice presidential candidate. Many Cruz supporters have expressed disappointment in her decision, citing Mr. Trump’s less than conservative record on several issues. Mr. Beck was among the conservative figures to lend his name to a special issue of National Review, denouncing Mr. Trump’s candidacy as an affront to conservativism. “Progressivism is in both parties,” Mr. Beck told the crowd on Saturday, “and you must look for the tell.” In response to the event, which was hosted by a “super PAC” supporting Mr. Cruz, Mr. Trump in recent days posted a series of tweets disparaging Mr. Beck. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 21, 2016  Mr. Beck shrugged off the attacks, joking that finding fodder to insult him was “not hard to do.” And as he prepared to give the Cruz campaign his blessing, he made clear that he expected quite a bit out of the next president. “He must be Lincoln,” Mr. Beck said, “and he may also have to be Washington.”