 Updated, 2:42 p.m. | VATICAN CITY — Senator Bernie Sanders did not get to meet with Pope Francis inside Vatican City on Friday, but it’s not because the pontiff didn’t want to. Pope Francis sent a handwritten note to those attending a conference at the Pontifical Academy of Sciences, including Mr. Sanders, saying he had planned to stop by the event around 7 p.m. local time, but could not because of a scheduled trip the next day to the Greek island of Lesbos to highlight Europe’s treatment of Syrian refugees. The note was sent to Msgr. Marcelo Sánchez Sorondo, a senior papal official and the academy’s chancellor, who read the pope’s words: “Yesterday I realized that today was going to be very complicated because of my trip to Lesbos. Today I confirm this situation and would like to apologize for not being able to attend.  I kindly ask you to greet the speakers and participants, requesting their understanding for this situation. I will keep them all in my prayers and good wishes, and send them my heartfelt thanks for their participation. May the Lord bless you. Fraternally, Franciscus.” Mr. Sanders, an ardent admirer of Pope Francis, called for a return to moral principles and a more just world economy, echoing the pontiff’s words and praising his leadership during a 15-minute address before the academy, a group that examines social, economic and environmental issues and is housed within a 16th-century villa inside Vatican City. The Vermont senator flew to Rome after debating his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton in Brooklyn on Thursday night. During Mr. Sanders’s speech before the academy, he criticized the news media, which he said asks people to “accept the status quo; that a truly moral economy is beyond our reach.” He went on to say: “Pope Francis has given the most powerful name to the predicament of modern society. He calls it the globalization of indifference.” The senator called for more compassion and said that he has seen hope and a sense of possibility in the young people he has encountered during his campaign. “Some might feel that it is hopeless to fight the economic juggernaut, that once the market economy escaped the boundaries of morality it would be impossible to bring the economy back under the dictates of morality and the common good,” he said. “Yet Pope Francis himself is surely the world’s greatest demonstration against such a surrender to despair and cynicism. He has opened the eyes of the world once again to the claims of mercy, justice and the possibilities of a better world.” Soon after landing in Italy, Mr. Sanders, his wife, Jane, and several of his advisers hustled into waiting vehicles and sped past ancient Italian buildings toward Vatican City, sirens blaring as the motorcade navigated narrow streets. Once he arrived, Mr. Sanders quickly drove past a dozen or so Americans cheering at the Vatican gates with handmade “Bernie 2016″ signs.  After the speech, Mr. Sanders walked just outside a Vatican gate and shook hands with waiting supporters. He then spoke to dozens of reporters saying he was pleased with his visit and admired Pope Francis greatly.  Mr. and Mrs. Sanders and their entourage remained in Rome afterward for dinner that included some of the conference’s participants, and they planned to stay overnight at a hotel near the Vatican. The trip is days ahead of the New York’s crucial primary election for the Sanders campaign on Tuesday.