 Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont joined members of three faiths – Christianity, Islam and Judaism – around a table at the Masjid Muhammad mosque in Washington on Wednesday to discuss racial and religious tensions in national politics and the national mood. The round table was scheduled in response to the mass shootings in San Bernardino, Calif., and made more fervent by calls, led by Donald J. Trump, for a “complete shutdown” in immigration by foreign Muslims. “Do we come together? Or do we allow demagogues to divide us up?” Mr. Sanders said. “That is the issue of the moment.” Since Mr. Trump made his proposal last week and recaptured control of the national news media’s attention, Mr. Sanders has focused a large part of his effort on the issue. He was quick to denounce Mr. Trump’s plan and has talked about it frequently on the campaign trail. His first Twitter post during the Republican debate on Tuesday night, which was the most shared, at more than 13,000 retweets, dealt directly with the issue. His visit to the mosque follows efforts by his Democratic rivals to reach out to Muslims as well. Martin O’Malley visited a mosque in northern Virginia last week, and Hillary Clinton met with Muslim leaders in Minneapolis on Tuesday. At the meeting Mr. Sanders spoke of the global and national atrocities caused by bigotry, recalling the genocides in Bosnia and Rwanda and the internment camps of Japanese American’s during World War II, as a warning of the way speech in the country was trending. “They want us to believe that the average Muslim is a terrorist,” he said. “Unbelievably, in defiance of the basic tenants of our Constitution, there are some who are talking about shutting down mosques like the ones we are in.” As a politician who has aligned himself with civil rights causes for decades, Mr. Sanders seemed comfortable talking about the issues of religious tolerance. While often reticent to share personal details about his life and faith, he did refer to being Jewish while talking about genocide. “We must never forget what happened under the racist ideology of the Nazis, which led to the deaths of millions and millions of people, including family members of mine,” he said. But as he warned of the dangers of religious intolerance, he also struck notes of hope. He mentioned how far the country had come, overcoming fears of having a Catholic, Mormon or African-American president. “We are going forward,” he said, “and as a people we are going to address the very serious problems that we face, and we are not going to allow them to divide us up.  Though he largely left his core message of income inequality out at the meeting, he did keep one of his trademark lines from his stump speech, and applied it to the issue of religious intolerance. “It’s time to say, ‘enough is enough.’”