 MANCHESTER, N.H. — Jeb Bush … party animal? That was a question posed to Mr. Bush at a “Life of the Party” young professionals event here on Wednesday afternoon: If he was throwing a party at the White House, what would the shindig entail?  His answer was not entirely surprising. “I wouldn’t invite Donald Trump,” he said to laughter. Mr. Bush explained that the hypothetical question reminded him of a real-life experience when he was the governor of Florida, and one of his department secretaries had everyone take the Myers-Briggs personality test. They broke the group into extroverts and introverts, and yes, Mr. Bush was one of a handful or introverts, and asked them to plan a party.   The introverts, Mr. Bush said, “quickly decided that we were all going to read a book that week and then we would have an interesting dinner conversation that would be over early, about the book that we read.” He continued: “And the extroverts didn’t plan their party. They started partying. They literally got a congo-line together, and they came into our room to mock us.” Asked who he would invite if he could choose two historical figures and one celebrity, Mr. Bush opted for Winston Churchill and Neil Armstrong. “Winston Churchill is probably the guy that I most admire just because of the range of his experience and knowledge, and his life experience,” Mr. Bush said. He even suggested giving Mr. Churchill “a brandy and a cigar,” before again turning practical. “It would have to be outdoors, probably, if that was the case, but that would be well worth it,” he said. Recalling an argument he’d had with the actor Matt Damon over school choice, which he said felt “superficial,” Mr. Bush said he probably wouldn’t bother to invite a celebrity.  The questioning, however, took a poignant turn, when Mr. Bush was asked what he read. “I’m reading the biography of my dad — surprise, surprise there,” he said, referring to Jon Meacham’s new book on the first President Bush, “Destiny and Power.” He said he had been surprised to learn that his father, who kept a diary, “had doubts about himself, doubts about where he was in life.” “I mean, I always saw him totally in charge, I idolized the guy, so it was an interesting insight that he was a human being, you know, upset when he lost and happy when he won,” he said. “It was kind of strange, but when you’re a son of someone, you don’t get those kind of insights.” At another point, when a questioner said he hoped to turn away from policy and return to the personal, Mr. Bush cracked, “Just don’t go boxers or briefs on me.” So that answer, alas, remains a mystery.