 Members of the Senate Democratic leadership have raised questions about an inquiry led by Senator Charles E. Grassley into Hillary Rodham Clinton’s tenure as secretary of state, highlighting what one staff member called a “fishy” coincidence: that a former aide to Mr. Grassley now works for the State Department’s inspector general. It’s the latest escalation over Mr. Grassley’s look into Mrs. Clinton’s time at the State Department, which Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the minority leader, last week described on the Senate floor as merely an effort to score political points, while holding up federal appointments in the process. Mr. Grassley has strongly denied those claims. Mr. Grassley, an Iowa Republican and the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, has been obtaining information, and sharing that information more broadly, about work done by the State Department’s inspector general in 2013 related to Mrs. Clinton’s longtime personal aide, Huma Abedin. Mr. Grassley has been blocking the confirmation of roughly 20 State Department nominees, saying the department has dragged its feet answering his questions about Mrs. Clinton’s email use and about Ms. Abedin’s status as a “special government employee,” which allowed her to work as a consultant making outside income. Last Monday, Mr. Reid denounced the delay in the nominations and defended Mrs. Clinton and Ms. Abedin, saying the holdup with the nonpartisan appointees was “just because Senator Grassley doesn’t want Hillary Clinton to be the next president of the United States.” And late last week, Mr. Reid’s deputy chief of staff, Adam Jentleson, said Democrats were questioning how Mr. Grassley had obtained some of his information. Mr. Jentleson said senior Democrats had discussed what he called the “fishy connection” between the release of the information and that Mr. Grassley’s longtime top investigator, Emilia DiSanto, is the deputy inspector general at the State Department. Ms. DiSanto worked for Mr. Grassley for years; she joined the inspector general’s office in late 2013, around the time the inquiry into Ms. Abedin began. “There does seem to be a fishy pattern here, and a fishy connection,” Mr. Jentleson said. He described the moving forward of the foreign service appointments as a “primary concern.” Mr. Grassley has, in the last few months, disclosed findings by the State Department’s inspector general into compensation that Ms. Abedin received while she was on maternity leave. There was also a report in Politico on an email chain involving Ms. Abedin that, her aides noted at the time, included a watermark showing it was sent from the State Department to the Senate Judiciary Committee. In one case the senator referred to a “confidential source” that had provided him with some information. Mr. Grassley’s spokeswoman, Jill Gerber, in a response to Senate Democrats, said that the State Department had been “stonewalling” his efforts to get information. “What’s ‘fishy’ is that the minority leader is engaging in vague implications rather than gathering the facts directly from his colleagues,” Ms. Gerber said of Mr. Reid. She suggested that Mr. Grassley’s source was “well known to staff for senior Democrats in the House and the Senate,” and not “a former Grassley staffer.” Both Senator Patrick J. Leahy and Representative Elijah E. Cummings were “present for the meeting” where Mr. Grassley received his information, she insisted. “There’s no mystery,” Ms. Gerber said. “Democrat leaders on Capitol Hill know exactly where the initial information came from, and they also know that it was later corroborated by documents provided by the State Department itself.” Ms. DiSanto, in an email, responded angrily to questions about whether there was a connection between her and the information that Mr. Grassley had received. “Any claim that I have communicated with Senator Grassley about State Department nominations is an outright lie,” she wrote. “There is nothing ‘fishy’ about the fact that I once worked for Senator Grassley about five years ago. Indeed, it is quite common for employees of the legislative branch to join the executive branch to continue their public service.” Jessica Brady, the press secretary for Mr. Leahy at the Judiciary Committee, suggested in a statement that Mr. Leahy had made other suggestions for government transparency, while Mr. Grassley was part of a process that was exceeding its authority. “Many have questioned how the Senate Judiciary Committee has any jurisdiction over employment agreements at the State Department,” Ms. Brady said. “Even if we disagree over whether it is appropriate for the committee to investigate a matter, the ranking member’s staff requests to be included in the process to ensure fairness.” An aide to Mr. Cummings did not respond to a request for comment. 