 SANDY SPRINGS, Ga. — Gov. John Kasich of Ohio is adamant: He is finally getting the attention he craved in the presidential race, and he is not going anywhere. But he is also open about something else: He does not know if he is going to prevail. At a town-hall-style forum on Tuesday at Kennesaw State University in Georgia, a man cited Mr. Kasich’s experience, but then brought up the coming Republican debate on Thursday and asked him, “What are you going to do to stick it to Trump, stick it to Rubio, and live out your purpose?” He told Mr. Kasich it was “time to take the gloves off.” “I don’t know if my purpose is to be president,” Mr. Kasich, who had talked earlier in the event about finding one’s purpose, responded. “My purpose is to be out here doing what I think I need to be doing, and we’ll see where it ends up.” “And if it’s not this crusade, it’ll be another one — and maybe it’ll be a really small one somewhere in my kids’ school. Who knows?” he added. “Because it doesn’t matter the size of the crusade. It’s the fact that you are in a crusade.” Later Tuesday, at a town hall here in Sandy Springs, Mr. Kasich offered a similar sentiment. Standing in front of his campaign bus addressing an overflow crowd before heading inside for the town hall event, he recalled telling his wife on Tuesday that he was “following the purpose that I think has been laid out for me.” He added that he was “not sure exactly what the goal is.” “Some might say it’s to be elected president,” he said. “Maybe it’s a different goal. Maybe it’s raising the bar and giving people the sense that the world can be a better place, that we can be positive, that we can have solutions. Maybe that’s enough.” Mr. Kasich’s team has tried to fight back against the suggestion, advanced by Senator Marco Rubio’s campaign, that Mr. Kasich has no realistic way to win the Republican nomination. The Kasich campaign released a memo on Tuesday from its chief strategist, John Weaver, who wrote that “Marco Rubio stock is the ultimate insider bubble.” Mr. Kasich spent Tuesday campaigning in Georgia, which is among the states that will vote on Super Tuesday, March 1. Speaking to reporters in Atlanta after addressing state legislators at the Georgia State Capitol, Mr. Kasich said he hoped his rivals would “be clearing the decks for me,” rather than vice versa. “Why would I be feeling pressure from them?” he asked. “They ought to be consolidating around me.”