 The exact origin of Donald J. Trump’s insistence that he saw live television images on Sept. 11, 2001, of “thousands and thousands” of Arabs in New Jersey “cheering” as “the World Trade Center came tumbling down” remains a mystery. But while no such images were broadcast that day, and five men of Middle Eastern appearance who were arrested in New Jersey that day for “puzzling behavior,” mistakenly interpreted as joy, were later released without charge, there was video of one small celebration broadcast on American television that day. Those images, recorded by Reuters in East Jerusalem immediately after the attacks, showed a small number of Palestinians cheering on a street. The footage was provided by the news agency to clients including Fox News, CNN and NBC, who included it in their rolling coverage of the attacks in the United States. The recorded footage was broadcast later on an extended version of NBC’s “Today” show at 11:58 a.m., just after a live report from Lower Manhattan, where the second tower had collapsed 90 minutes earlier. Although the images of children dancing in the streets in Jerusalem had been recorded earlier in the day, and the size of the crowd was not large, in the chaos of the day it seems possible that some viewers might have mistaken what they saw for a live reaction to the collapse of the towers. There was a report that as many as 3,000 Palestinians in the Israeli-occupied West Bank marched in celebration that day, but no footage of that rally was ever broadcast, since the Associated Press cameraman who recorded it was threatened by militants who wanted it suppressed. While Ben Carson’s campaign said that he had indeed confused what he called “the newsreels” of celebrations from the Middle East with unsubstantiated accounts of celebrations in New Jersey, Mr. Trump is sticking to his account. Late Monday, NBC reported that Mr. Trump had called its correspondent Katy Tur to insist that he was certain that he had seen the video he described because he has “the world’s greatest memory.”   — Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) November 24, 2015 