 An independent group backing Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio accuses Ben Carson and Donald J. Trump of being unprepared for the presidency in a new TV ad, linking the political outsiders to President Obama in requiring “on-the-job training.’’ “Benghazi. Beheadings. Paris,” a deep-voiced narrator says in the 30-second ad, before introducing Mr. Kasich as “the first with a plan to destroy ISIS.” New Day for America, the “super PAC” behind the ad, said it would appear on television starting Thursday in New Hampshire, where the group’s heavy TV spending over the summer helped lift Mr. Kasich into second place in state polls. Since then, Mr. Kasich has received mixed reviews in the Republican debates and slipped to fifth or sixth in polls of New Hampshire, where he has pinned almost all of his hopes. The ad is the eighth for New Day since early July and the first in a month. The group is putting a large sum behind it, $500,000 and it plans to continue spending aggressively. It has announced $6.5 million of ads in the state from Oct. 1 through the primary in early February.   The content and title of the new ad, “Commander in Chief,” are intended to cast doubts about Mr. Trump and Mr. Carson’s fitness to lead at a time of grave concern over national security. Unfortunately for Mr. Kasich, a WBUR poll of New Hampshire Republicans, taken since the Paris terrorist attacks on Friday, showed Mr. Trump gaining five percentage points compared with the same poll three weeks ago. Mr. Kasich slipped by three points. Predictions that support for Mr. Trump would erode as the national mood turned sober in a time of crisis have not borne out. Indeed, at a large rally attended by more than 10,000 people in Massachusetts on Wednesday night, Mr. Trump was greeted with cheers of “USA! USA!” for bellicose remarks. “We’ve got to knock” the stuffing “out of these people,’’ he thundered, using an expletive.  He said he would increase the frequency of bombing the Islamic State “like you wouldn’t believe.’’ “It’s safe to expect the ads will continue to get more aggressive in presenting a contrast between Governor Kasich’s leadership and experience versus Ben Carson and Donald Trump,” Connie Wehrkamp, the press secretary for New Day for America, said.