 Donald J. Trump welcomed the kind words he received this week from Vladimir V. Putin on Friday, praising the Russian president’s leadership and brushing off concerns that his regime kills journalists and political opponents. “When people call you ‘brilliant’ it’s always good, especially when the person heads up Russia,” Mr. Trump said on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” program. Asked to justify his warm feelings toward Mr. Putin, considering his willingness to invade other countries, target reporters and use force against political opponents, Mr. Trump suggested that such behavior was not a big deal. “He’s running his country and at least he’s a leader,” Mr. Trump said. “You know, unlike we have in this country.” Incredulous at the response, MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough followed up by asking how Mr. Trump, the Republican presidential candidate who leads most of the polls, could possibly condone such policies. “I think our country does plenty of killing also, Joe,” Mr. Trump responded. “There’s a lot of stupidity going on in the world right now, Joe. A lot of killing going on and a lot of stupidity and that’s the way it is.” Given one more chance to condemn Mr. Putin’s treatment of journalists and political opponents, Mr. Trump finally conceded that it was wrong. “Oh sure, absolutely,” he said. — Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) December 18, 2015  Still, Mr. Trump expressed a desire to deepen ties with Mr. Putin and cited poll numbers that showed his high approval rating within the country. He acknowledged that Mr. Putin might be conducting those polls himself but did not seem to regard that as an issue. Mr. Trump’s embrace of Mr. Putin could become a political issue for the billionaire real estate developer. Former Republican candidates such as Sarah Palin and Mitt Romney have both called Mr. Putin one of America’s greatest foes in the past, but Mr. Trump has heaped praise on the Russian leader who on Thursday called Mr. Trump “bright” and “talented.” — Mitt Romney (@MittRomney) December 18, 2015  Former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, who has been making an effort to stand up to Mr. Trump, scolded him on Friday for cozying up to a leader that emboldens enemies of the United States. — Jeb Bush (@JebBush) December 18, 2015  An earlier version of this article quoted incorrectly from Mr. Putin’s comments. He called Mr. Trump “bright” — not “brilliant.”