 RICHMOND, Va. — Gov. John Kasich’s campaign said on Monday that it had gained another billionaire supporter: the hedge fund titan Julian H. Robertson Jr. Mr. Robertson, who founded Tiger Management, will help raise money for the campaign, Chris Schrimpf, a spokesman for Mr. Kasich, said. On Sunday, the Ohio governor’s campaign said it had won the support of another billionaire investor, Stanley F. Druckenmiller.  “We are really seeing a good response from donors who know that Governor Kasich is the party’s best choice not just to win in November but to actually run the country,” Mr. Schrimpf said on Monday, which Mr. Kasich spent campaigning in Virginia. Since Saturday’s South Carolina primary, in which Mr. Kasich finished fifth, his campaign has rolled out a flurry of new donors and endorsements in an effort to show the viability of his campaign. His newly announced supporters include Tom Ridge, the former governor of Pennsylvania and homeland security secretary, and William F. Weld, the former governor of Massachusetts. Mr. Robertson could not be reached for comment on Monday. Last year he gave $1.1 million to a “super PAC” supporting former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, who quit the race on Saturday after his fourth-place finish in South Carolina. In August, Mr. Robertson gave $25,000 to a group supporting Mr. Kasich’s presidential bid. Last year he also gave $50,000 to a group backing the short-lived bid of Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, although most of that money was later refunded. Mr. Kasich, while eager to win the support of billionaires, has been critical of the campaign financing system under which they have big influence. “This whole business that billionaires can determine who’s going to be president of the United States needs to be changed,” he said at a town hall-style forum here on Monday. “This is the goofiest system, too. It’s not the right way to do things.”
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.