 Hillary Rodham Clinton claimed a victory of sorts on Friday on an issue that she has championed, as an Indiana coal company backed away from a deal that would have used $18 million intended for the health care costs of retired miners to pay for lawyers and costs dealing with bankruptcy. The issue is one of the latest involving unionized workers that Mrs. Clinton has delved into as she tries to reassure some of her more nervous backers among organized labor that she is sufficiently committed to their cause.  The dilemma related to the Patriot Coal Corporation settlement, which was first reported on by ProPublica. Mrs. Clinton seized on it, issuing a statement recently in which she decried Patriot Coal, at the same time that her husband, former President Bill Clinton, made the issue a focal point in a speech in coal mine-heavy West Virginia.  “It is a major relief that these miners are going to keep their benefits, but it never should have taken a public outcry for Patriot Coal to do the right thing,” Mrs. Clinton said. “Ensuring health care and retirement security should be the first priority when a company goes bankrupt and Americans lose their jobs, not the last.” She added: “We must honor our commitments to the coal miners who put their own health and safety at risk to help power the American economy. The United Mine Workers have fought tirelessly for their members throughout the Patriot bankruptcy proceedings.”  She said that, as president, she would “work to guarantee that coal miners and their families will get the benefits they have earned and deserve.” On the issue of the so-called Cadillac tax on high-cost insurance coverage packages, as well as on the Keystone XL Pipeline proposal, which environmental groups loathe, Mrs. Clinton pressed to assure key constituencies that she supports them.  But fights like the one involving Patriot Coal also serve another purpose for the candidate. After a summer spent dealing with questions about her use of a private email server while at the State Department, and her disinterest in answering them from reporters, she has been seizing on opportunities to talk about issues that voters relate to and understand. 