 BLUFFTON, S.C. — Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, who has competed in South Carolina while also looking ahead to more hospitable primary states, is not planning to stay here on Saturday when Republican voters go to the polls. His campaign has scheduled town-hall-style events on Saturday in Colchester, Vt., near Burlington, and in Worcester, Mass. Both Vermont and Massachusetts have their primaries on March 1, or Super Tuesday, along with a number of states in the South that represent more challenging territory for Mr. Kasich. In addition, Mr. Kasich, who finished second in the New Hampshire primary last week, plans to attend a fund-raiser in Boston, according to The Boston Globe. This week, Mr. Kasich also devoted attention outside of South Carolina, campaigning on Monday and on Tuesday morning in Michigan, whose primary is March 8 and which the Kasich campaign views as critical. And later Wednesday, he traveled to New York to raise money and to appear on CBS’s “Late Show With Stephen Colbert.” A spokesman for Mr. Kasich noted that by Saturday, Mr. Kasich will have spent eight days campaigning in South Carolina since the New Hampshire primary last Tuesday. Mr. Kasich also won an important endorsement on Wednesday from The State of Columbia, S.C. Still, polls have shown him near the bottom of the pack here. “We are competing hard in SC but the race doesn’t end in South Carolina,” the spokesman, Chris Schrimpf, wrote in an email. He added that the campaign had “not yet decided where we will be at the end of Saturday night.” Speaking to reporters on Wednesday before a campaign event here, near Hilton Head Island, Mr. Kasich, considered a moderate in the Republican field, acknowledged that he faced challenges in South Carolina, which is considerably more conservative than New Hampshire. “I’m just not known as much as I would like to be,” he said. “There’s only so much time.” But, citing the crowds at his campaign events in the state, he said he hoped to do better than what has been predicted. “I don’t think people expected me to do squat, and I think we’ll do better than squat,” he said. “But we’ll see.”