 His poll numbers hovering near 1 percent, Senator Lindsey Graham took a page from the “Straight Talk Express” playbook on Thursday, warning Republicans that they risked losing another presidential election because of what he called extreme views on abortion and immigration. During a speech at the Republican Jewish Coalition forum in Washington, Mr. Graham laid into his rivals for alienating women and minorities. He took particular issue with Senator Ted Cruz, who earlier had evaded a question about why voters who support abortion rights might consider supporting someone like him.  “If you’re going to tell a woman who has been raped she has to carry the child of the rapist, you’re losing most Americans,” Mr. Graham said, referring to Mr. Cruz’s view that abortion should be illegal in all cases. “If the nominee of the Republican Party will not allow for an exception for rape and incest, they will not win. Ted Cruz doesn’t have an exception for rape and incest.” Senator Marco Rubio, another Republican candidate doing well in the polls, also does not support exceptions for rape and incest, and the issue remains contentious among people who oppose abortion generally. Mr. Graham considers himself “pro-life” but said on Thursday that issues such as national security and taxes should be the focus of Republicans if they want to retake the White House.  The senator also scolded his Republican colleagues for their tone on immigration, and said that Donald J. Trump’s talk of deporting undocumented immigrants en masse could spell the end of the party. He predicted that support from Hispanics could fall into the single digits when voters go to the polls next year.  Mr. Graham has failed to catch on in the crowded Republican field and has been campaigning heavily in New Hampshire with Senator John McCain, his friend and a popular figure in the state who campaigned for president in 2008 aboard the “Straight Talk Express” bus. Hoping for a strong showing in the primary here, Mr. Graham was not hiding his frustration with the race so far.   “Not the speech you thought you were going to hear, right? Mr. Graham said. “Not the speech I thought I was going to give.”