 As he inched closer to sewing up the needed delegates to clinch the Republican presidential nomination, Donald J. Trump declared on Monday that he has more foreign policy experience than “virtually anyone” else in the presidential field.  “I do deal with leaders around the world,” Mr. Trump said on CNN’s “New Day,” when the host, Chris Cuomo, asked him about President Obama’s mocking his lack of foreign policy chops at the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner over the weekend. “I’ve built a great company, and I deal around — right now, we have hundreds of deals being negotiated all over the world by my company, and I deal with presidents, and I deal with prime ministers. I deal with everybody,” Mr. Trump said. “I probably have more experience than virtually anybody looking at this office, and I make money. I’ve made a lot of money doing it. I built a tremendous company and made a lot of money.”  When Mr. Cuomo noted that Hillary Clinton, a former secretary of state and former first lady, might question that claim, Mr. Trump said, “Hillary Clinton dealt with other countries, too. And one thing I give her credit for, she did a lot of traveling. But look at the results. Syria. Benghazi. Look at her results. All of those results are terrible. I’ve made a fortune going out of this country. I’ve made tremendous amounts of money dealing outside of this country.”  He added, “So, you know, don’t tell me about that. There is no pushback. I have done a lot of traveling. I’ve done a lot of deals outside of this country. I deal at the highest level. And that’s good. And that’s, you know, as far as I’m concerned, I think I have great experience.”  Mr. Trump also criticized Mrs. Clinton for using the phrase “off the reservation,” to which some Native American groups took exception, to describe her experience dealing with men such as Mr. Trump.  “I won’t even bring up the fact that the Indians have gone wild on that statement,” Mr. Trump said. “The Indians have said that that statement is a disastrous statement, and they want a retraction. I’m not going to get into that, but — ”  When Mr. Cuomo noted that Mr. Trump had in fact just raised it, Mr. Trump replied, “I think it’s a very nasty statement to men, and if I made that statement, it would be a big, big story.”
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.