 Donald J. Trump embraced the part of political victim on Monday, accusing Hillary Clinton of lying about him and demanding that she apologize for saying that terrorists were using him as a recruiting tool. Mrs. Clinton invoked Mr. Trump several times during the Democratic presidential debate on Saturday night and appeared to overstep the facts when she said that the Islamic State was using him in videos to lure new militants to their cause. Mr. Trump has angered many Muslims with his plan to bar foreign Muslims from entering the United States, but no such videos featuring him have been found. Jihadists have posted on Twitter about Mr. Trump, who has called for surveillance of some mosques and a halt to admitting Muslims into the United States, according to the SITE Intelligence Group, which tracks jihadist propaganda. The Clinton campaign pointed to comments by Rita Katz, the director of the SITE Intelligence Group, who was quoted by NBC News this month saying that Islamic terrorist groups “love him from the sense that he is supporting their rhetoric.” But while it is possible that videos of Mr. Trump have been circulated by some Islamic State members, there is no known evidence that the group has used such videos as part of its recruitment efforts. — Thomas Kaplan and Rukmini Callimachi “She should apologize,” Mr. Trump said on NBC’s “Today” show on Monday. “She lies about emails, she lies about Whitewater, she lies about everything. She will be a disaster about everything as president of the United States.” A spokeswoman for Mrs. Clinton confirmed over the weekend that there were no videos, but she said that Mr. Trump has been mentioned frequently on social media by supporters of the Islamic State. The situation is a change for Mr. Trump, the Republican candidate who is leading most of the polls, as he has been under fire in recent weeks for saying he saw thousands of Muslims cheering in New Jersey when the World Trade Center’s twin towers fell in the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. No footage of such episodes has been found. Despite her strength in most polls of Democrats, Mrs. Clinton’s honesty has been a lingering concern among likely voters. On Monday, Mr. Trump released a flurry of Twitter messages calling Mrs. Clinton a liar and said that Democrats were responsible for the rise of the Islamic State. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 21, 2015 