 HOOKSETT, N.H. — Ted Cruz stood in a church here, speaking in a controlled quaver. He had just shared a long embrace with a campaign volunteer, Paul Porter, who described his journey of addiction and recovery. “What an uplifting story,” Mr. Cruz said, reaching the lectern. “What a human journey.” And then he offered another.  Mr. Cruz has spoken occasionally of his half sister Miriam. She was nine years older — beautiful, smart and charming, he said, and kind enough to let Mr. Cruz “pull on her hair nonstop.” Mr. Cruz’s father, Rafael, had divorced Miriam’s mother. Miriam remained forever bitter, Mr. Cruz said, and abused drugs and alcohol. She stole his allowance money. She married a man who had been in and out of jail. She had a son named Joey. She went to jail herself. When she was out, Mr. Cruz and his father tried to track her down at a crack house in Philadelphia. They left their valuables behind, Mr. Cruz said. “We were driving to a crack house,” he told the crowd on Thursday. “We didn’t know what was going to happen there.” They retrieved her and went to a diner. “She wouldn’t listen,” Mr. Cruz said. “She kept going on and on. She was angry. She said, ‘Daddy missed my swim meet when I was in high school.’” Mr. Cruz reminded her that she had a son, he said. She would not hear it. Mr. Cruz said he took a $20,000 cash advance on a credit card to put his nephew in boarding school. For a time, Miriam improved, he said. But in 2011, she died of an overdose. “Her son found her in her bed,” Mr. Cruz said softly. “The coroner ruled it accidental. We’ll never know. We just got the call one day that Miriam was gone.” The church crowd was quiet. For Mr. Cruz, whose stump speech tends toward unsubtle zeal and frequent humor, it was a moment delivered in a different key. The issue of addiction has had particular resonance in New Hampshire, an epicenter of the heroin epidemic, and several candidates have addressed the crisis on the trail. The hushed tones did not last. In a jarring pivot to the more familiar red meat of his campaign pitch, Mr. Cruz assailed opponents who he said were unwilling to secure the Mexican border. He spoke of building a wall. He told an oft-repeated joke that those crossing the border illegally were “undocumented Democrats.” At one point, Mr. Cruz mocked Sean Penn for his interview with the drug kingpin known as El Chapo. “What a cute and chic thing to celebrate, someone who murders and destroys lives for a living,” he said.  In a round-table discussion after his remarks, with the local police chief and addiction experts, Mr. Cruz said that while he supported a Senate program to direct some funds to antidrug efforts, “it’s not going to be the government that solves this.”  He emphasized the importance of groups on the ground, including churches and charities.