 FAIRFAX, Va. — Gov. John Kasich of Ohio responded forcefully on Monday to a claim by Senator Marco Rubio’s campaign that Mr. Kasich had no realistic way to win the Republican presidential nomination. Mr. Kasich burst out laughing when asked about the Rubio campaign’s analysis, which amounted to a suggestion that Mr. Kasich should clear the way for Mr. Rubio. “I think it’s funny,” he told reporters. “I think it’s ridiculous.” He added that he does not “take orders from K Street.” “I’ve challenged the establishment my entire career, and they don’t like it,” Mr. Kasich said after holding a town-hall-style forum here at George Mason University. “They want to get somebody they can be comfortable with.” Mr. Rubio’s campaign released a memo on Sunday that said Mr. Kasich “has no path to the nomination.” Mr. Kasich has made a point of not criticizing other candidates, and he made sure to note he was not “disparaging” Mr. Rubio. But he noted that Mr. Rubio had finished in fifth place in New Hampshire, compared with his second-place showing. And he seemed to draw a contrast with Mr. Rubio, who has been criticized as being overly scripted, by describing the forum he held here. “I didn’t have a script, I didn’t have a teleprompter, I took robust numbers of questions, and that’s what I’m going to continue to do,” Mr. Kasich said. Indeed, Mr. Kasich drew criticism with a comment he made about how, decades ago, he first won election to the State Legislature in Ohio with the help of “women who left their kitchens” to campaign for him. Mr. Kasich also complained that he had not received much coverage from the news media until recently. “You people would have taken bets, you never would have bet on me,” he told reporters. “And here’s another thing: You gave me no coverage. For a year, you ignored me. And now all the sudden people are beginning to hear me, and I’m going to continue to talk. So how do you like that?” Mr. Kasich was also asked if he would be interested in being on a ticket with Mr. Rubio, a pairing that one of their former opponents, Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, suggested would be formidable, regardless of who had which spot. “Sure,” Mr. Kasich said. “If he wants to run for vice president with me, that’d be great.”