 So, when are you getting out? That has become the pervasive question facing presidential candidates, Democrats and Republicans alike, who are registering near zero in the polls, and holding little more in the bank, with the actual voting still months away. For lower-tier White House hopefuls, rare moments of exposure are increasingly becoming opportunities to express frustration or forced optimism. As a number of candidates demonstrated this week, life in the “1 percent” is not always much fun. Former Senator Jim Webb: “It’s very difficult to win a debate if you don’t get the opportunity to speak,” Mr. Webb said at the Council on Foreign Relations on Thursday when asked why he seemed angry onstage this week. “In that kind of environment, it was either going to be Mr. Angry or a potted plant.” Gov. Bobby Jindal: “Look, we’re up to fifth place in Iowa,” he said at an event in Davenport, explaining that he was “hunting where the ducks are” in his quest to meet voters. Senator Rand Paul: “I wouldn’t be doing this dumb-ass live-streaming if I weren’t,” he said on Tuesday as he filmed a day in the life of his campaign. “Yes, I still am running for president. Get over it.” Senator Lindsey Graham: “National polls mean zero right now,” he told MSNBC on Friday. “I think experience on foreign policy is going to matter the closer we get to voting. I’ve been to Iraq and Afghanistan 35 times, 30 years in the Air Force. I think this will matter over time. I hope it does. If it doesn’t, God help us.” Gov. Chris Christie: “I don’t necessarily think you have to win either state,” he said to Sean Hannity of Fox News this week of New Hampshire and Iowa, where he is near the bottom of most polls. “But I think that you have to be very competitive in both states coming out of that and going to South Carolina, and that’s what we intend to do. I think we’re going to do very well in Iowa and I think we’re going to do even better in New Hampshire.” Former Senator and Gov. Lincoln Chafee: “I want to continue to bring up the issues about what we’re doing — that it’s going to affect future generations,” Mr. Chafee told CNN this week after Wolf Blitzer asked if he was worried that he was starting to look silly. “I have three children and I care what’s happening and I want to talk about the issues and I want to be a voice for prosperity through peace.”