 As Senator Bernie Sanders soars in polls and faces criticism from Hillary Clinton over his record on gun control, his aides are finding themselves explaining his voting record over the years on the issue. The focus on Mr. Sanders’s record highlights not only how the gun control debate has raged since Bill Clinton was in the White House, but the issue’s newfound intensity amid a string of mass shootings since President Obama became president. Among the votes taken by Mr. Sanders, an independent from Vermont who was a congressman before becoming a senator, was a 2001 stand against a move by Democrats to preserve records of instant background checks on gun purchases for as much as 90 days. The administration of George W. Bush, through Attorney General John Ashcroft, wanted to reduce that to 24 hours. The 90-day requirement was part of the 1994 Brady Bill, which required federal background checks and was brought up initially by Representative Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York. It ultimately passed and was signed into law by Mr. Clinton. Mr. Ashcroft had opposed the longer background-check retention period while he was in office. The National Rifle Association had sued the Clinton administration, seeking to have the background checks destroyed almost immediately. That suit was dismissed, and a higher court ruled that the Federal Bureau of Investigations needed time to review the records. Mr. Schumer, who by 2001 was a senator, co-sponsored legislation that would have prevented the use of federal funds to destroy background checks. Hillary Clinton, who was then the other senator from New York, co-sponsored an additional bill by Mr. Schumer on the issue. In the House, Mr. Sanders, who represents a state with a vibrant hunting culture, voted against a version of the measure. Asked about his vote, Mr. Sanders’s campaign manager and longtime aide, Jeff Weaver, said that it was in keeping with the senator’s belief about limited government. “He has always supported background checks, but at the same time has never supported bringing any kind of federal registry of gun purchases or gun ownership,” Mr. Weaver said. “Maintaining records for 90 days seemed to be moving too far in that direction” Mr. Weaver faulted Mrs. Clinton for having supported a federal registry while she was a senator but saying during her 2008 presidential campaign that what worked in her state wouldn’t necessarily work in other states. She made the remarks as she faced a tough primary against Senator Barack Obama, who called her record on the issue at the time “erratic.” In this campaign, Mrs. Clinton has seized on guns as a major issue. Mr. Obama, through executive action, has moved to limit gun purchases after bipartisan efforts at gun control stalled in Congress. And she has used the gun issue to try to differentiate herself with voters from Mr. Sanders. Mr. Weaver said that Mr. Sanders was “concerned about government having information on people,” adding that the senator had been concerned “for a long time about privacy in government.” He called Mr. Sanders a “very practical legislator.” The senator is known for calling for a “revolution” within government involving issues such as income inequality. But on the issue of guns, his language has been different. Mr. Weaver described Mr. Sanders as being concerned with addressing “the root causes of violence in this country” including the “structural issues of poverty.” “I think he has always looked to solve the root causes of the bad behavior that people are doing with guns,” Mr. Weaver said. “I think that has been more of his focus.” 