 MEREDITH, N.H. — The man in the Patriots cap stood, thanked Jeb Bush for coming, and then asked a question that prompted boos from the crowd: He said he was leaning toward voting for Donald J. Trump and asked why Mr. Bush had called him a “jerk.” “Let me see how much time we have,” Mr. Bush said, miming checking his Apple Watch. But then, Mr. Bush did something surprising: He began to list “some nice things” about Mr. Trump. He said likes that Mr. Trump is not embarrassed by his success. “I think we ought to be celebrating success in life and I think it’s great that he’s been successful,” Mr. Bush said. “And he maybe exaggerates his success a bit, and all that, but it’s good, it’s a healthy thing, it’s an American thing to be successful and to be proud.” He said he appreciates Mr. Trump’s willingness to be “politically incorrect.” “We’re way too uptight, and there is no leeway anymore about expressing your views,” he said. “There’s no margin of error. And everybody assumes that you’re, you know, you’re hateful or you’re a racist or whatever it is. And while he’s exaggerated in this, way over the top exaggerated, the fact that he has made a contribution to kind of loosen things up a little bit, I think that’s good.” Then, and only then, did Mr. Bush return to the question at hand.  Mr. Bush said he called Mr. Trump a jerk for disparaging someone with a disability, an apparent reference to comments Mr. Trump made seeming to mock a New York Times reporter with a physical disability. “When anybody — anybody — disparages people with disabilities, it sets me off. That’s why I called him a jerk,” Mr. Bush said. “What kind of person would you want to have in the presidency that does that? Do you want a president that disparages women, Muslims of all kinds, people with disabilities, Hispanics?” “I mean, we’re getting down to about 90 percent of all people here,” he added. “At what point do we say enough of this?” Mr. Bush also used the question to underscore one of the core arguments of his candidacy — that the nation faces serious times that require a serious candidate, and he is that man. He said that Mr. Trump’s seeming unfamiliarity with the nuclear triad — the United States’s three ways of firing nuclear weapons — in a recent debate is all the more troubling amid North Korea’s disputed claims  Tuesday that it had set off a hydrogen bomb. “When you’re running for president of the United States, you better have a pretty good answer, because at the heart of it, you ask the president to do one thing, and it’s to keep us safe, and the nuclear triad is a means by which we have been kept safe since the post-World War II era” Mr. Bush said. He urged voters to re-watch the video from that debate: “Tell me,” Mr. Bush said, “if he’s qualified right now to be president of the United States.” “Is he a smart guy? Yeah. Will he be able to learn about this? I don’t know. Maybe if he takes the time to do it,” he continued. “But he sure as heck better if he’s going to be president, because we all want a president that has a steady hand as it relates to something as serious as that.” Mr. Bush concluded by telling the questioner, Tom Emanuel of Laconia, N.H., that he hoped to earn his vote. “I’m going to track you down and I’m going to get you to support me,” Mr. Bush said. “You’re on my list now, brother.” So did he win Mr. Emanuel over? “Not tonight anyway, “ Mr. Emanuel said. “Time will tell, it’s a long race.” But, he added, he was impressed with Mr. Bush’s response. “I like Jeb Bush, and before Trump was in the race, I would say I was probably going to vote for Bush, because I like the family, I like the old time values and those types of things,” he said. “But then when Donald Trump came on — he’s very aggressive, and he’s dynamic, he’s a good salesman, I’ve read his book, so I have a lot of respect for Donald Trump as well.”