 Hillary Clinton pressed Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont on his gun control record during her appearance on “Face the Nation” on CBS on Sunday, and brushed off “dead end” attacks from Donald J. Trump and other Republicans about Bill Clinton’s past scandals. Mrs. Clinton was one of several presidential candidates who hit the Sunday talk show circuit, with Mr. Trump, Mr. Sanders, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida all making appearances. Denis McDonough, the White House chief of staff, also appeared to promote the president’s agenda ahead of his final State of the Union address, which is scheduled for Tuesday. On CBS, Mrs. Clinton continued to knock Mr. Sanders for a past Senate vote to give gun manufacturers immunity from prosecution when a gun is used in a crime. She is seeking to highlight one of the few areas where she is to Mr. Sanders’s left on an issue. “It’s the only industry in our country where we have given that kind of carte blanche to do whatever you want to do with no fear of legal consequences,” Mrs. Clinton said. She added, “And he often says, well, look, I’m from Vermont and it’s different. It’s not like being in New York City.” She faulted him for “excuses” on the issue, saying, “It’s a difference that Democratic voters in our primary can take into account.” On CNN’s “State of the Union,” Mr. McDonough pressed the issue as well after Mr. Obama wrote an Op-Ed article in The New York Times saying that he would not support any Democrats who diverged from his views on gun control. “We’ve seen movement on this since the Op-Ed appeared on Thursday. We think that’s good. If that continues that’s the goal of this, is making sure that we have gun laws that are responsive to the wishes of the American people,” Mr. McDonough said, adding that those laws should not be “responsive to the wishes of the big N.R.A. bosses here in Washington.” On ABC’s “This Week,” Mr. Sanders responded that it “was a complicated piece of legislation. There were aspects of it that were absolutely right. There were aspects of it that were wrong. But as the Secretary knows, that for many weeks now, I said of course I’ll be happy to take a look at that complicated piece of legislation and deal with it” if he becomes president. Mr. Sanders also talked about his “electability” against Republicans, as recent poll numbers have shown him faring better in potential head-to-head matchups than Mrs. Clinton. Mrs. Clinton also waved off criticisms by Mr. Trump and other Republicans about scandals from her husband’s first presidential campaign and during his time in office, including his affair with Monica Lewinsky while she was a White House intern. Mr. Trump said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that he was making a “threat” to keep raising the issue only if Mrs. Clinton and Democrats accuse him of sexism. “Well, if he wants to engage in personal attacks from the past, that’s his prerogative. You know, so be it,” Mrs. Clinton said, pointing to her stands on legislation related to women’s issues. She added later, “It’s been fair game going back to the Republicans for some years,” but said that “I think it’s a dead end, blind alley for them, but let them go. I’m going to talk about the differences between us, because I think that’s what Americans care about.” Mr.Trump said in his own appearance that his personal history was fair game as well. Additionally, Mr. Christie fended off questions from “Face the Nation” host John Dickerson about his quote from a years-old news article about donating to Planned Parenthood, a point that Mr. Rubio has used to criticize him in recent weeks. “I never donated to Planned Parenthood, so that’s wrong,” Mr. Christie said. Mr. Rubio, on ABC, said he “absolutely” stood by a 2004 bill while he was in the state legislature in Florida to provide in-state tuition levels at state colleges to undocumented immigrants. “It was very narrowly tailored to high-performing students who found themselves in a situation where they were brought here by their parents when they were 5, didn’t even speak another language except English and, therefore, couldn’t attend college because they were being charged like they were from out of state,” Mr. Rubio said. “They still had to pay for college, but they paid for what people paid when they lived in Florida.”