 Donald J. Trump could be staring at some empty seats when he comes to Washington on Monday to make a foreign affairs address before the American Israel Public Affairs Committee’s policy conference. Some rabbis and others who will be attending the pro-Israel group’s event are organizing a walkout during Mr. Trump’s speech to protest views that they say conflict with Jewish values. The rabbis plan to hold a prayer service outside the room where the Republican presidential candidate is delivering his remarks. “This is really a response to the statements he has made throughout the campaign that are Islamophobic — claiming that all of Islam hates us, that he wants to register American Muslims — that’s not what we believe as Jews,” Rabbi Jesse M. Olitzky of South Orange, N.J., said in an interview. “What we’ve learned from our history is that we can’t stand idly by when a leader says those things.” Rabbi Olitzky said that more than 1,000 people have joined a Facebook group called “come together against hate” that is organizing the protest on social media. Code Pink and a Palestinian activist group are also expected to hold demonstrations on Sunday and Monday. Mr. Trump has drawn some backlash from American Jews before, because he said that he would like to remain neutral when starting negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians if, as president, he were trying to broker peace in the Middle East. He also irked some last year when he made a speech to the Republican Jewish Coalition and joked that he could relate to Jewish people because they are tough negotiators. Mr. Trump reminds people that he has had close ties to Israel for many years and that his daughter and son-in-law are Orthodox Jews. But the more heated, anti-immigrant language from Mr. Trump is what has concerned those who are planning the protest. Some have even said that his tone and style echo World War II-era Germany. “The language and symbolic gestures and violence found in the Trump campaign echo the rise of Nazism in the late 1920s and early 1930s,” Louis Marlin, of Irvine, Calif., wrote on the Facebook protest page. “I support your efforts to clearly express a rejection of Mr. Trump by all of us.” Rabbi Olitzky said he was not prepared to take the comparison that far, but that what he has seen at Mr. Trump’s rallies is a serious concern. “I think his comments are scary and he’s inciting fear and violence among his followers,” he said. The Trump campaign did not immediately respond to a request for comment.