 ATLANTA – Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina, campaigning here on Monday with Senator Marco Rubio, joined the growing number of outraged Republicans who are condemning Donald J. Trump for not speaking out against white supremacy more forcefully. Ms. Haley drew on South Carolina’s experience last year with the murder of nine African-Americans in a Charleston church, saying that is exactly the kind of hate that Mr. Trump refused to repudiate.  “The K.K.K. came to South Carolina from out of state to protest on our Statehouse grounds,” she told a ballroom of more than 1,500 Rubio supporters at a hotel in the Buckhead section of Atlanta on Monday, eliciting boos as she mentioned the Klan. “We saw and looked at true hate in the eyes last year in Charleston,” she added. “I will not stop until we fight a man that chooses not to disavow the K.K.K. That is not a part of our party. That is not who we are.” Ms. Haley was playing the role of backup campaigner for a hoarse Mr. Rubio on Monday. While his voice was a little raspy, he sounded no less indignant about Mr. Trump or the prospect that he could run away with the Republican nomination. Mr. Rubio’s attacks have been biting and personal in recent days. Just in the last 24 hours he has made fun of Mr. Trump’s ruddy complexion and the size of his hands, in an apparent attack on his manhood. “You know what they say about men with small hands,” Mr. Rubio chuckled to a crowd Sunday. “You can’t trust them.”

Video

Rubio Criticizes Trump Over David Duke


Marco Rubio denounced his fellow Republican candidate Donald J. Trump for not disavowing the support of the former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke.

                By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS on                                                    Publish Date February 29, 2016.
                            

                                    Photo by Eric Thayer for The New York Times.
                                







embed










 It was evidently payback for Mr. Trump’s put-down about Mr. Rubio’s large ears. “You know what my ears are? They’re the way God made me,” Mr. Rubio said Monday at the hotel rally. He again called Mr. Trump robotic for repeating catchphrases and one-liners, flipping around the criticism that Mr. Rubio can be a stilted speaker. And the senator then added another dig: A Trump robot would be built in China. Mr. Rubio has also been sounding the alarm over the kind of catastrophic damage he envisions Mr. Trump doing to the Republican Party. Warning of the specter of a Trump nomination, Mr. Rubio said Monday, “We are going to lose a generation of voters and a generation of Americans – most of whom want to be nothing like Donald Trump.” “This is not what we can turn our country over to,” he said. “Or our party.”