 Unleashing perhaps the sharpest Republican criticism of the party’s top presidential contenders, some Senate Republicans on Thursday said they doubted whether Senator Ted Cruz of Texas could win the general election. Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who recently suspended his own campaign for president, offered a strikingly harsh assessment of Mr. Cruz and Donald J. Trump, saying the nomination of either Republican front-runner would mean “death” for the party’s chances in November. “If you nominate Trump and Cruz, I think you get the same outcome,” he told reporters. “Whether it’s death by being shot or poisoning doesn’t really matter. I don’t think the outcome will be substantially different.” Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah — the chamber’s longest-serving Republican who made his own run for president in 2000 — said the Democratic candidates Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont were crossing their fingers that Mr. Cruz would be the nominee because he would be easier to beat. “I think Hillary and my friend Bernie are hoping he’ll be our nominee,” Mr. Hatch said. Lawmakers shared their unvarnished opinions the day after Bob Dole, the former Kansas senator and 1996 Republican presidential nominee, said it would be “cataclysmic” for the party if Mr. Cruz were nominated. Mr. Hatch, who has  backed Jeb Bush for a few months, said Mr. Dole’s remarks should be taken seriously. “I think we ought to pay attention to grand, senior statesmen like Senator Dole,” he said. “He’s seen it all.” “And he’s reached an age where he doesn’t care what people think either, which is always a good thing,” Mr. Hatch, 81, added. Remaining steadfast in their resolve not to get involved in the presidential campaign, other Senate Republicans tried to maintain their neutrality, repeating time and time again that they will support whomever the party nominates this summer. “I believe in this environment it doesn’t matter much what former senators or current senators say, that voters are going to make those decisions on their own,” said Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri. “And I think the candidate that gets nominated will be the best candidate.” Told of Mr. Graham’s remarks about the risk of nominating Mr. Cruz or Mr. Trump, Senator John Thune, Republican of South Dakota, laughed. “This year it’s just kind of all over the map in terms of where our people are coming down and their view of individual candidates,” he said. “The voters are going to sort it out.” He said while it is Mr. Dole’s and others’ “prerogative” to weigh in on the race, he is concerned about what that means as the campaign hits the final stretch. “In the end I guess the main thing I am worried about is that we are able to unite as a party and win the election in November,” Mr. Thune said. But there has long been a particular ring of distaste to the criticism of Mr. Cruz, especially among many of his Senate colleagues, with whom he is unpopular for, among other things, calling Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, his party’s leader, a liar on the Senate floor. With under two weeks before the Iowa caucus, Gov. Terry Branstad of Iowa on Tuesday harshly criticized Mr. Cruz for his opposition to federal ethanol mandates and saying that he hoped Mr. Cruz lost in the state. Mr. Dole, a backer of Mr. Bush, said on Wednesday that he thought Mr. Trump could be the only candidate capable of stopping Mr. Cruz from securing the nomination, thus preventing the “wholesale losses” the party would suffer if Mr. Cruz were on the ticket, he said. Saying he shares Mr. Dole’s concerns, Mr. Graham went further Thursday, speaking candidly about a campaign he called “beyond strange.” He denounced Mr. Cruz and Mr. Trump, whose grasp of foreign policy “scares the hell out of me,” he said. Mr. Graham, who threw his support behind Mr. Bush after dropping out of the race, said he believes nominating either Mr. Cruz or Mr. Trump would make it easy for Mrs. Clinton to win the election. “Dishonest — which is Hillary Clinton in the eyes of the American people — beats crazy,” he said. “I think Donald Trump’s domestic and foreign policy is gibberish.” Mr. Cruz, meanwhile, could prove too rigidly ideological to solve the nation’s problems, he said. “If you take those two off the table, dishonest loses to normal, so let’s just pick somebody out of the phone book if we have to,” Mr. Graham said. “We can win this election unless we lose it.”