  President Obama gave interviews at the White House on Friday to three popular YouTube figures: Adande Thorne, a self-described “vlogger, time traveler, professional cuddler and professional gamer” who has 3.7 million subscribers and goes by the screen name sWooZie; Destin Sandlin, who hosts a show called “Smarter Every Day” for 3.5 million subscribers; and Ingrid Nilsen, who goes by MissGlamorazzi and hosts a channel “for curious minds and adventurous hearts” with 3.9 million subscribers. In addition to substantive questions about terrorism, racial bias and space research, Mr. Obama fielded some others that presidents are not often asked. Here are a few. Mr. Thorne: “If you had to pick from one of these ‘Star Wars’ characters, who would you be?” Mr. Obama: “I’ve got to go with Han Solo. He’s a little bit of a rebel.” Mr. Thorne: “If you had to pick a pair of pants for your dog, A or B?” (Holds up a chart showing one dog with pants on four legs and another with pants on just the hind legs.) Mr. Obama: “You’ve got to go with this.” (Points to the dog with pants on two legs. Then points to the other one.) “This, I think, it’s a little too conservative. A little too much. Too much fabric.” Mr. Thorne: “If Drake and Kendrick Lamar got in a rap battle, who do you think would win?” Mr. Obama: “Gotta go with Kendrick. I’m just saying. I think Drake is an outstanding entertainer. But Kendrick, his lyrics — his last album was outstanding. Best album, I think, last year.” Mr. Sandlin: If there were an element called Obamian, “what would you want the physical property” to be? Mr. Obama: “I would want it to be stable. I would want it to be a catalyst, but one that didn’t get too hot or too cold. And hopefully it would be one that was useful to humanity, that we could actually use and wasn’t just some shiny object.” Ms. Nilsen: “Recently, I was shocked to learn that pads, tampons and other menstrual products are taxed as luxury goods in 40 states. I don’t know anyone who has a period who thinks it’s a luxury.” Mr. Obama: “I think that’s fair to say. Michelle would agree with you.” Ms. Nilsen: “Because it’s something that’s part of our everyday lives and is crucial to our health as women. So I want to know, why do these items continue to be taxed?” Mr. Obama: “I have to tell you, I have no idea why states would tax these as luxury items. I suspect it’s because men are making the laws when those taxes were passed.”