 MANCHESTER, N.H. — Again playing the part of candidate surrogate — though with a message now tailored to young parents like herself — Chelsea Clinton spoke of motherhood Tuesday on the New Hampshire trail while also amplifying her mother’s increasing attacks on Senator Bernie Sanders. “Senator Sanders wants to dismantle Obamacare, dismantle the CHIP program, dismantle Medicare and dismantle private insurance,” Ms. Clinton said at an event in Manchester, detailing faults she found with Mr. Sanders’s health care plan. (Mr. Sanders, who prefers a single-payer health insurance for all, has denied these claims before, saying he “helped write the Affordable Care Act.”) Ms. Clinton campaigned for her mother in 2008 as part of the campaign’s outreach to young people. Since then she has given birth to a daughter and has another child on the way. Surrounded by over 100 supporters in a packed brewery in Portsmouth, N.H., on Tuesday, Chelsea Clinton put a hand on her stomach. “I’m sorry that I can’t take advantage of all aspects of your hospitality,” she said as she thanked the hosts, the Portsmouth Brewery. “But I hope that those who are not currently pregnant certainly do.” “It is the first presidential election that I will vote in as a mom,” she told the crowd. “So I have a different sense of responsibility, and I feel like I have even more of a stake in the future because my daughter and future children are now going to be part of that future,” she said. She answered a question about what she would tell young people caught between her mother and Mr. Sanders by saying that her mother had expanded voter registration among young voters and that, “Your voice matters.” 
She then echoed another Clinton campaign criticism of Mr. Sanders, who is leading Mrs. Clinton in some New Hampshire polls, saying of the Clinton plan to make higher education more affordable: “She’s articulated how she’s going to pay for all this.” But she often returned to the theme of motherhood, using it to try and show her mother’s softer side, the grandmother who enjoys singing “Wheels on the Bus” – “that’s a big family activity,” Mrs. Clinton said – and reading to her granddaughter. The audiences at Chelsea Clinton’s events reflected this changed target demographic. At her first event, a round table on early childhood education in Concord, seven preschool-age children held hands to keep together as they walked through the crowd and took their seats. Joanne Bowne brought her daughter, Angelina, to the event. After a call for a final question, Angelina stood up, her hand raised high. Mrs. Clinton called on her. “I am a 13-year-old autistic child,” Angelina said, and asked an extended question about what Hillary Clinton would do to improve mental health care. Mrs. Clinton answered, and after the event, she stayed to make sure she took a picture with Angelina and Mrs. Bowne. “I’m a huge supporter of her,” Mrs. Bowne said, referring to the candidate Hillary Clinton but gesturing her head toward where Chelsea Clinton had spoken. Added Angelina, “She was awesome.”