 Looking to chart a road map for the election year ahead, House Democrats will huddle next week in Baltimore at a three-day strategy session that will include speeches by President Obama, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and the comedian Trevor Noah, the new host of  “The Daily Show.”  Aides in Washington said Friday that Mr. Noah, who last year replaced Jon Stewart as host of Comedy Central’s signature evening show, would counsel Democrats on navigating the logistical and emotional challenges of replacing a beloved celebrity leader as they head into Mr. Obama’s final months in office.  Actually, no one said that. Mr. Noah, by all accounts, is simply supposed to show up and give a funny speech, possibly about the nature of the modern infotainment industry.  Officially, the House Democrats have chosen “United for Opportunity” as the theme of their annual retreat — a nod to the crucial role of party allegiance in their effort to impede the agenda of the Republican majority. The theme also seems to be a jab at some of the divisiveness that has characterized the Republican presidential race.  “As Democrats, we believe opportunity is the linchpin to wide prosperity in America,” said Representative Xavier Becerra of California, who is organizing the retreat as chairman of the Democratic Conference. “If we all work together, we’ll guarantee that for every hard-working family in this country. But, we’ve got to come together, not seek to divide and separate Americans.” Mr. Becerra said the retreat would give Democrats “a chance to set the agenda for 2016.”  Agendas aside, House Democrats face a steep mathematical challenge in the 2016 cycle with relatively few competitive races that would allow them to pick up seats, according to many analysts. So, while Democrats have a chance of recapturing the Senate in the November elections, the House is virtually certain to remain in Republican hands.  In addition to Mr. Obama, Mr. Biden and Mr. Noah, House Democrats are expected to hear speeches by Richard L. Trumka, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. labor union federation; Tom Steyer, the billionaire founder of NextGen Climate, an advocacy group focused on mitigating the consequences of climate change; Simon Sinek, a writer and lecturer on inspirational leadership; Salman Khan, the founder of the Khan Academy online educational platform; and Tom Toles, an editorial cartoonist for The Washington Post.  At their own strategy retreat in Baltimore last week, Congressional Republicans said they were working aggressively to develop a campaign platform that would be able to unite their party by the time primary voters choose a nominee.  It was not clear if “The Daily Show,” which skewers Democrats and Republicans alike, was planning live coverage of the retreat or of Mr. Noah’s speech. 