 
Updated, 3:29 p.m. | 
The dispute between Donald J. Trump and Pope Francis spilled onto the campaign trail on Thursday, turning the final days before the South Carolina primary into a surprising clash involving religion and politics. After Mr. Trump took offense to the pope’s suggestion that the candidate’s views on immigration discredited his claims of being a Christian, other candidates treaded lightly. They were cautious not to be critical of Francis while not wanting to sound soft on border security. In Anderson, S.C., on Thursday, Senator Marco Rubio, himself a Catholic, was careful to offer words of praise for the pope, addressing him as “the holy father” and expressing “tremendous admiration and respect” for the head of the Roman Catholic Church. But he said that as a United States senator, his biggest obligation was to “keep people safe” by enforcing immigration laws – the kind of rules, he noted, that Vatican City, the home of the pope, applied to visitors. “Vatican City controls who comes in, when they come and how they come in, as a city-state,” Mr. Rubio said, during a brief news conference. “The U.S. has a right to do that as well.” Senator Ted Cruz also did his best to avoid touching on the conflict. “Listen, that’s between Donald and the Pope, I’m not going to get in the middle of that,” he told reporters in Easley, S.C. “I’ll leave it to the two of them to work it out.” Commentators on social media debated the effect that the pope’s criticism of Mr. Trump might have on the presidential race. Some suggested that it could help Mr. Trump, who is Presbyterian, win over evangelicals who distrust Catholicism. Others pointed to the wall surrounding Vatican City as evidence of the pope’s hypocrisy on the issue. Rush Limbaugh, the conservative radio host, came to Mr. Trump’s defense, noting how unusual it was for a pope to question a politician’s faith. He also criticized Francis for expressing an openness to the use of contraception in regions where the Zika virus has been found and wondered if a justification for abortion would be next. “It is quite a curious thing,” Mr. Limbaugh said. “Do you think the pope is mad that Donald Trump said ‘Two Corinthians’ instead of Second?” Jeb Bush, who is Catholic and has criticized Mr. Trump on many issues, appeared to defend him on the issue of his faith. “I don’t question anybody’s Christianity,” Mr. Bush said. “I honestly believe that that’s a relationship that you have with your creator, and it only enables bad behavior when you — when someone from outside our country talks about Donald Trump.”  Speaking after a town hall event at Clemson University, Gov. John Kasich of Ohio said that believing in border security and Christianity were not mutually exclusive.  “If he said that, I’m sure he would regret having said that, because it’s not up to any of us to judge who’s good and who’s bad,” Mr. Kasich said of the pope. Ben Carson, the retired neurosurgeon, echoed that sentiment and maintained that calling for strong immigration laws does not equate to a lack of faith “Enforcing our immigration laws is not in contradiction with love and kindness,” Mr. Carson said in a statement. “As Christians, we are called to love our neighbors. But as a nation, we must also defend our sovereignty and security.” Reporting was contributed by Michael Barbaro from Anderson, S.C.; Matt Flegenheimer from Easley, S.C.; Ashley Parker from Columbia, S.C.; and Thomas Kaplan from Clemson, S.C.
