 Chuck Hagel, the former Republican senator from Nebraska who served as President Obama’s secretary of defense, says  he is likely to back an independent presidential bid by Michael R. Bloomberg if Republicans nominate a candidate he considers unacceptable. Mr. Hagel weighed running on an independent presidential ticket in 2008 with Mr. Bloomberg, then the mayor of New York City. But Mr. Bloomberg concluded that it was impossible for an independent candidate to win that year. The extreme volatility of the 2016 race might open a wider path this year for a candidate outside the major parties, Mr. Hagel said. He said he was supportive of Mr. Bloomberg considering the race. “He understands governing,” Mr. Hagel said in a telephone interview. “He understands leadership. He understands people. He’s got the qualities that are required for the presidency, starting with character.” The divisiveness of the leading candidates in both parties, Mr. Hagel said, “would suggest that there may be an opening” for a third option. Mr. Hagel, a decorated Vietnam veteran who has been critical of the Obama administration since stepping down as defense secretary, said that in 2008 he and Mr. Bloomberg  held “some long conversations” about the prospect of an independent presidential campaign. Mr. Hagel mused in a television interview at the time about “a New York boy and a Nebraska boy” joining forces to run the country.  He said he had not spoken with Mr. Bloomberg about his current deliberations. Mr. Bloomberg has instructed advisers to draw up a plan for entering the presidential race as an independent, and has set a deadline in early March for making a decision.   Mr. Hagel said he was troubled by the current state of the Republican presidential race. He said the two candidates best qualified for the presidency, former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, had struggled to break through with a sober message about governing. (“It’s a boring message,” Mr. Hagel said.) And the early leaders in the race, Donald J. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, have taken positions that Mr. Hagel said he viewed as abhorrent. “Ted Cruz talks about carpet-bombing the Middle East,” Mr. Hagel said. “Does he understand, if that was initiated, the consequences of that? Donald Trump’s way of handling immigrants, Muslims – those are just not realistic. They’re dangerous.” Should either man be nominated for president, Mr. Hagel would be inclined to support an independent ticket instead, he said. Mr. Bloomberg, he said, would have to make his own determination about whether such a campaign could succeed. “He’s not going to dive off a high-dive here with just a pool of hope underneath him,” Mr. Hagel said.