 Updated, 8:39 p.m. |  A combative Gov. Paul R. LePage of Maine, who has a history of making blunt, sometimes racially tinged remarks, found himself in a familiar position on Friday as he sought to walk back a comment that had drawn widespread condemnation for its racial overtones. On Wednesday, he said out-of-state drug dealers come to Maine and “impregnate a young white girl” before leaving. “These are guys with the name D-Money, Smoothie, Shifty — these types of guys,” he said while discussing the state’s heroin crisis at a town-hall-style meeting in Bridgton, Me. “They come from Connecticut and New York, they come up here, they sell their heroin, then they go back home. Incidentally, half the time they impregnate a young white girl before they leave, which is a real sad thing because then we have another issue that we’ve got to deal with down the road.” On Friday, Mr. LePage, a Republican, characterized the statement as a slip of the tongue. “I made one slip-up,” the governor said at a televised news conference at the state capitol in Augusta, organized after the remarks became public Thursday evening. “I made a one-word slip-up. I might have made many slip-ups. I was going impromptu, and my brain didn’t catch up to my mouth. Instead of saying ‘Maine women,’ I said ‘white women.’ I’m not going to apologize to the Maine women for that, because if you go to Maine, you’ll see that we’re essentially 95 percent white.” After saying he would not apologize, Mr. LePage seemed to do just that. “So if I slipped up and used the wrong word, I apologize to all the Maine women,” he said. Asked if he was not suggesting that drug dealers with names like D-Money, Smoothie and Swifty were black, he said, “I don’t know if they’re white, black, Asian,” he said. “I don’t know.” Whether he apologized or not seemed to depend on the listener. Representative Chellie Pingree, a Maine Democrat, called the comments racist and sexist. “He owes us an apology, and claiming it was just a slip of the tongue doesn’t cut it,” she said. Amy Fried, a political scientist at the University of Maine, called his remarks “a non-apology apology.” But Rick Bennett, the chairman of the state Republican Party, said in a statement that “it was right for Governor LePage to acknowledge his mistake and apologize for his ill-chosen, inappropriate words.” The governor, who won election with Tea Party backing, is serving his second term. He was already embroiled in several battles with the Maine Legislature, including over how to respond to the state’s rising heroin death toll. An earlier effort calling for his impeachment, prompted by what critics said was an abuse of power when he blocked a political foe from getting a private job, may have run out of steam. But some of his adversaries were still looking to censure him. At his news conference, Mr. LePage devoted much of his time to one of his favorite themes: castigating the news media. He opened his remarks by saying he was paraphrasing from one of the “Rocky” movies: “Youse don’t like me, and I don’t like you.” He added, “I sincerely mean that.” Mr. LePage blamed reporters for not helping him combat the heroin crisis. He chastised them for publicizing his Wednesday remarks only after being prodded by one of his political adversaries. And with an air of false humility, he repeatedly bowed to their superior intellect and polish. “Am I perfect?” he asked. “No. Do I want to be perfect? No, because if I were perfect I would be a reporter.” The oldest of 18 children with an abusive, alcoholic father, he ran away from home at 11, lived on the streets and, with the help of strangers, managed to go to college and become a businessman. Now 67, he often refers to his biography to explain his behavior. “If you listen closely in that tape, you could probably find 10, 15, 20 words I used that could have been used another way, better used,” Mr. LePage said. “That’s who I am. You can take the kid off the street, but you can’t take the street out of the kid.” Mr. LePage’s blunt style has frequently drawn national attention, but many in Maine appreciate his forthrightness, and during his 2014 re-election campaign he traded on it as a political plus. He has said he would tell President Obama to “go to hell” and told the Maine N.A.A.C.P. to “kiss my butt,” a comment he says was mischaracterized. He has compared the I.R.S. to the Gestapo, later apologizing. Mr. LePage is the most prominent elected official to support Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey in the presidential race. Mr. Christie so far has made no comment. A statement from Marlon Marshall, the director of state campaigns for Hillary Clinton, said: “LePage’s racist rants sadly distract from efforts to address one of our nation’s most pressing problems.”