 Updated, 9:35 p.m. | BARTLETT, N.H. – Some candidates ask for support by overcompensating, the way Jeb Bush did when he insisted during the middle of one of his five New Hampshire town hall events the other day, “I can outwork everybody running, and I’m doing it.” Others, like Chris Christie, basically demand votes. “It’s time to end this top-three business,” Mr. Christie, the New Jersey governor, told a New Hampshire crowd the other day. “I want to be your top one of one.” But Marco Rubio is not as direct. “I hope I can earn your vote,” he said as he wrapped up a visit here on Monday, echoing the kind of soft-sell pitch he has been using with voters across the country. His sometimes self-effacing approach could explain what is keeping him from breaking out in early primary and caucus states. And his rivals see such a retiring style as an opening to needle him for keeping a less-than-rigorous campaign schedule — which they have been doing with great satisfaction while Mr. Rubio embarks on a three-day tour to meet voters here before Christmas. Mr. Christie, who is on a statewide tour of his own, taunted Mr. Rubio over the weekend for not answering voters’ questions. He then boasted how he would stick around until every last one was exhausted. “This is not like a Marco Rubio thing where you get three questions and then he leaves,” Mr. Christie said, causing a few smiles to break out in the audience. “We actually stay here. And we answer questions for a while. So raise your hands up.” Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who has been exchanging blows from afar with Mr. Rubio over their positions on immigration and national security, shifted to a new avenue of attack and accused his rival of taking conservative support for granted. In an interview published Monday, Mr. Cruz told National Review that Mr. Rubio was “hiding from the grass roots” and running his campaign “from a TV studio.” For the record, Mr. Rubio did stay and answer more than a dozen questions here in Bartlett for almost an hour on Monday evening. His wife and four children in tow, the native Miamian lamented the unseasonably warm New Hampshire weather. “They were hoping to see snow. What happened?” Mr. Rubio joked. He portrayed his experience as the son of Cuban immigrants as firsthand knowledge that could be used to tackle immigration reform. “No one running for president knows more about immigration than me,” he said, addressing head-on one of his biggest vulnerabilities with many conservative voters. He professed his belief that the United States is a challenged but fundamentally special country. “America remains a great country,” he said, in a jab at Donald J. Trump’s “Make America Great Again” slogan. “We just have a broken government.” But if Mr. Rubio is self-conscious about his relative invisibility in New Hampshire, which will hold its primary on Feb. 9, and other early-nominating states, he masks it well. At his first event on Monday, a town-hall-style meeting with 200 people in Rochester, he opened his remarks with a joke about how his tardy teenage daughters were still getting dressed, and then he dived into his usual stump speech. (His evening event in Bartlett drew about the same number of people, and his staff had to add chairs for a larger-than-expected crowd.) His ideas for overhauling higher education — like income-based repayment plans for more student loans and greater support for vocational schools — were in step with concerns for many people in Rochester, a small, working-class city; both issues prompted applause and questions. Mr. Rubio received a louder reception from the crowd than some of his rivals here have lately, in fact. But there was another likely explanation: a man who kept starting off the applause as he stood in the back of the room with Mr. Rubio’s campaign aides. Mr. Rubio’s campaign dismisses the suggestion that he is somehow not working hard enough. It says that by the end of December, Mr. Rubio will have spent 16 days this month in early-voting states, including five in New Hampshire and seven in Iowa, which votes first with caucuses on Feb. 1. “We are amused by all these attacks, and certainly we don’t mind our opponents’ lowering expectations,” said Alex Conant, a spokesman for Mr. Rubio. Campaign aides say Mr. Rubio’s schedule looks different from most of the other candidates’ because, unlike his rivals, he has not gone all-in in a particular state. Mr. Christie’s campaign boasts that he has spent the most time in New Hampshire. And Mr. Cruz believes that his path to the nomination will require a victory in Iowa, where he has spent considerable time and resources over the last few months (although relatively little time in December). Mr. Rubio’s travel schedule, along with a few clumsy answers lately to questions about his day job as the junior senator from Florida, have allowed his opponents to exploit an image of him as an indifferent politician. He recently drew criticism for imploring Republicans to slow down a spending bill in Congress. He was evidently unaware that he could have done so himself by registering a formal objection by phone or email. And he explained his absence from the final vote on the omnibus spending plan by saying that no vote at all was essentially the same as a “no” vote. So far, Mr. Rubio has refused to engage with Mr. Christie over the governor’s suggestions that he is a low-energy campaigner. But Mr. Christie is showing no desire to ease up. “He hasn’t campaigned real hard,” Mr. Christie said in an interview in Nashua, suggesting that Mr. Rubio had been overly focused on courting donors at the expense of voters here. “If you spend most of your time at restaurants in New York City, that’s not real campaigning.”