 BOULDER, Colo. — After Wednesday night’s CNBC Republican debate — in which the business network and its moderators were roundly criticized by both the candidates onstage and even some of their own colleagues — the Republican campaigns called for an overhaul of the debates, privately huddling to discuss the best way to push their party and the networks toward greater transparency and input on the format. Speaking to reporters before a speech in Lakewood, Colo., on Thursday, Ben Carson, a retired pediatric neurosurgeon, said he had asked his staff to reach out to the other campaigns “to talk about a change” in how Republican debates are conducted. The campaigns complained about the focus of the questioning, perceived bias, and a lack of speaking time. “I think maybe it has the possibility of being a very important moment in American politics,” he said of the debate, “because it so clearly demonstrates the need for a change in format.” Echoing the complaints of other campaigns and Republican officials, Mr. Carson said of CNBC and its moderators, “You’ve got to be really bad for the whole audience to boo you,” implying that the moderators had used their platform “for political purposes.” The frustrations, which erupted behind the scenes while the candidates were still onstage, poured into public view Wednesday evening. Reince Priebus, chairman of the Republican National Committee, took to Twitter, email and the spin room to express his extreme displeasure with the debate’s three main moderators — CNBC’s John Harwood, Becky Quick and Carlos Quintanilla — and Sean Spicer, the committee’s communications director, was already fielding angry phone calls from campaign aides. On Thursday morning, Mr. Spicer and Katie Walsh, the R.N.C.’s chief of staff, continued phone conversations with the campaigns, which expressed their concerns over the tone and type of questions, as well as the moderators. (As Senator Ted Cruz of Texas chided during the debate, “Nobody watching at home believed that any of the moderators had any intention of voting in a Republican primary”). The Republican National Committee, however, which has taken a greater role in the debate process this cycle, working with the networks to “sanction” roughly a dozen debates, has no official control over the questions or the moderators. But the Republican committee did select the networks, as well as the schedule and locations, prompting some grumbling among the campaigns at their own party. On Thursday morning, the campaigns were still struggling to coalesce around a list of achievable demands, but it was likely to include debate length, format, and issue selection. The Republican committee also began informing the campaigns Thursday that, at least for now, they will stop holding group conference calls between the campaigns and the networks because there have been too many leaks to the press, and instead hold one-on-one calls. Before the debate, according to someone familiar with the negotiations, CNBC had promised the candidates that the opening question would be on financial freedom; instead, the moderators began by asking them to name their greatest weakness. “People who want to be president of the United States should be able to answer tough questions,” said Brian Steel, the network’s senior vice president of public relations. And not every campaign was angry. Several candidates appeared on CNBC for interviews after the debate, with one of the candidates, Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, having nothing but praise for the network.  Wednesday night, as the undercard debate began, there were already signs that the network and the Republican National Committee were not on the same page, with Mr. Priebus complaining that a chyron for digital graphics at the bottom of the screen scrolling Twitter missives was detracting from the debate. Then, during the prime-time face-off, Danny Diaz, Jeb Bush’s campaign manager, began pounding on the door to the CNBC work space to complain that his candidate was not receiving equal time. (Ultimately, Mr. Bush received the second least minutes of airtime, under seven minutes.) “During the debate, I expressed to CNBC that it was unsatisfactory the amount of time he got, yes,” Mr. Diaz said. Mr. Spicer also found himself banging on CNBC’s door during the debate to raise similar time concerns — Mr. Bush was one of at least two candidates that complained — as well as other frustrations. Even before the debate, some of the campaigns had complained about their green room conditions. Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, for instance, was originally given a locker room holding area that included the toilet, and the four candidates in the undercard debate were assigned a large, joint green room separated only by pipe and draping.  The committee, which was responsible for the green rooms, rejiggered them before the debate. On Thursday, Mr. Carson suggested a debate structure that more readily gives candidates “an opportunity to be able to lay out your plans for something and then be questioned about it.” He praised a rival, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who aggressively chastised the moderators mid-debate: “I think the Cruz missile worked,” he said.