 The Republican race in South Carolina has edged closer a day before voters cast their ballots, according to a new poll that shows Donald J. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz neck and neck. An NBC News/Wall Street Journal/Marist survey found that 28 percent of likely Republican primary voters support Mr. Trump, while 23 percent back Mr. Cruz. In January, the billionaire was leading him by 16 percentage points. Conducted after the first two nomination contests and the latest Republican presidential debate, Mr. Cruz has seen a groundswell of support shift his way from voters who consider themselves to be “very conservative” and Tea Party Republicans. The Texas senator has been hammering Mr. Trump for his previous liberal positions and for his criticism of former President George W. Bush. Despite the swing, several other recent polls have shown Mr. Trump maintaining double-digit leads in South Carolina ahead of the election on Saturday. Some of Mr. Trump’s support in South Carolina has also shifted to Senator Marco Rubio, whose support sits at 15 percent. The Florida Republican is also the most popular second choice among South Carolina voters. Jeb Bush, who is under pressure to deliver a strong showing in South Carolina, is not far behind Mr. Rubio, at 13 percent. Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, who experienced a bounce from his second place finish in New Hampshire, how has backing of 9 percent of voters. Ben Carson is also at 9 percent.  As for the Democrats, who hold their South Carolina primary the following Saturday, on Feb. 27, Hillary Clinton holds a commanding lead over Senator Bernie Sanders. The former secretary of state is beating the Vermont senator by a margin of 60 percent to 32 percent. Although Mrs. Clinton’s lead has narrowed somewhat since January, her overwhelming support among black voters continues to buttress her advantage. The poll of Democrats had a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points, and the Republican poll had a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points.