 The first major elected official to endorse Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey for president made racially charged remarks this week about drug dealers entering his state and impregnating “white girls.” During an event Wednesday night in Maine, Gov. Paul R. LePage, a Republican, described the heroin trade in his state, suggesting it was being fueled by outsiders. “These are guys with the name D-Money, Smoothie, Shifty — these types of guys,” he said. “They come from Connecticut and New York, they come up here, they sell their heroin, they go back home,” Mr. LePage told the crowd, according to The Portland Press Herald. “Incidentally,” he added, “half the time they impregnate a young, white girl before they leave, which is a real sad thing, because then we have another issue we have to deal with down the road.” Mr. LePage is known for his blunt, frequently impolitic style of speech. But his remarks seemed to catch many by surprise. Lance Dutson, a Republican operative in Maine, called the remarks “outrageous” on a blog. “This is one of the most offensive statements yet from this governor,” Mr. Dutson said. Hillary Clinton’s campaign also criticized Mr. LePage, saying in a statement on Thursday night that his comments were “offensive” and “try to cover up the very real epidemic of drug abuse facing people in his state and across the country. LePage’s racist rants sadly distract from efforts to address one of our nation’s most pressing problems.” A spokeswoman for Mr. Christie did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Thursday evening. Mr. LePage and Mr. Christie remain close. As head of the Republican Governor’s Association, Mr. Christie campaigned for Mr. LePage’s re-election in 2014, traveling to Maine to speak on his behalf. Mr. LePage, in turn, offered the first major endorsement of Mr. Christie’s presidential campaign. Before he endorsed Mr. Christie in early July, Mr. LePage reminded the public of his unorthodox approach to politics. “I don’t play the political game very well — never have, never will,” he said at a diner. “Don’t plan to learn.” At the time, Mr. Christie praised Mr. LePage for his leadership. “This is a guy who knows how to make decisions,” Mr. Christie said. “And he doesn’t wait; he doesn’t put his finger up in the air to see which way the wind is blowing.”