 CONCORD, N.H. — Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey kept up his scalding criticism of Senator Marco Rubio of Florida on Wednesday, declaring, despite polls to the contrary, that they were the two main options for New Hampshire voters. “Really, this New Hampshire primary is now down to a choice between me and Marco Rubio, and everybody knows it,” Mr. Christie declared at a news conference here, where he was endorsed by Shawn Jasper, the speaker of the New Hampshire House. Mr. Christie said the race amounted to a choice between a tested, experienced leader and “someone who is new at this business.” Describing himself as Mr. Rubio’s “impediment to the next round,” he added, “I think people in New Jersey learned a long time ago: It’s tough to come through me.” New Hampshire is a make-or-break state for Mr. Christie, who finished in 10th place in Iowa but is hoping to emerge from New Hampshire as the leading Republican among the so-called establishment candidates. That quest was complicated by Mr. Rubio’s strong third-place finish in Iowa, and on Tuesday, Mr. Christie derided the senator as “the boy in the bubble,” citing what he said was the senator’s scripted nature and aversion to answering questions. On Wednesday, Mr. Christie used the same insult against Mr. Rubio, and ticked off a long list of what he viewed as the senator’s shortcomings, including the length of his town hall meetings (too short), his stump speech (unchanged in years) and his Senate achievements (nonexistent). Mr. Christie said he would “challenge anyone to show me the significant accomplishment that Senator Rubio has done while he’s in the United States Senate.” “I can’t find one,” he said. In an interview on Fox News on Wednesday, Mr. Christie said Mr. Rubio “acts like the king of England” in avoiding unwanted questions from the news media. “It sounds like he’s in the witness protection program,” Mr. Christie said of Mr. Rubio’s strategy. Polls in New Hampshire do not support Mr. Christie’s view of the race. Donald J. Trump has held a comfortable lead, with several candidates bunched up in competition for second place. Those candidates include Mr. Christie and Mr. Rubio, but also the winner of the Iowa caucuses, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, as well as Gov. John Kasich of Ohio and former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida. (And most recent polls show Mr. Christie lagging the others.) Mr. Christie’s main rivals did not embrace his unconventional assessment of the race. “I was unaware that Governor Christie resigned to become a fiction writer,” said Chris Schrimpf, a spokesman for Mr. Kasich. Tim Miller, a spokesman for Mr. Bush, called Mr. Christie’s declaration of a two-man race “extremely wishful thinking on his part.” And Joe Pounder, a spokesman for Mr. Rubio, said that “no amount of hot air or made-up facts can distract from Chris Christie’s liberal record.”  On Wednesday, Mr. Christie also implored New Hampshire voters to disregard the results of the Iowa caucuses, warning them that their first-in-the-nation tradition could be at risk if they followed Iowans’ lead. Mr. Christie also urged voters to resist the notion that the top three Republican finishers in Iowa were “who you have to make first, second and third,” and that “you all in New Hampshire must, like lemmings, follow what happened in Iowa.” “Don’t get run over by the media, please,” Mr. Christie said at a town-hall-style meeting at a pub in Lebanon, N.H. He went so far as to suggest that New Hampshire’s front-and-center role in the presidential nominating process could be jeopardized if voters in the state simply echoed how Iowans weighed in about the candidates. “It’s time for you all to be engaged to save the New Hampshire primary,” he said, “because if you’re just going to do the same thing Iowa did, then what’s the difference?” In New Hampshire, Mr. Christie has devoted significant time to campaigning in smaller settings, like town hall meetings. He urged voters to encourage that kind of effort, drawing a contrast with Mr. Trump, who he noted was campaigning in Arkansas on Wednesday, even with New Hampshire’s primary only days away. Mr. Christie warned the crowd not to reward “the guy who comes in on the 757, signs a few hats and leaves.” 