 Heightened fears about terrorism and a growing refugee crisis have put presidential candidates on the spot this week, requiring them to come up with harried, and sometimes radical, proposals on how they would handle the new threats facing America. The following is a handy recap of where the leading candidates stand: Donald J. Trump: “They have to be,” Mr. Trump said when asked if Muslims should have to enter a national registry declaring their religion. “It’s all about management. Our country has no management.’’ Ben Carson: “If there is a rabid dog running around your neighborhood, you’re probably not going to assume something good about that dog,” Mr. Carson said, calling for stricter measures to screen refugees. “And you’re probably going to put your children out of the way.” Gov. Chris Christie: “I don’t think orphans under 5 should be admitted to the United States at this point,” Mr. Christie told Hugh Hewitt, when asked if there would be any exceptions to his opposition to accepting Syrian refugees. Gov. John Kasich: “U.S. public diplomacy and international broadcasting have lost their focus on the case for Western values and ideals and effectively countering our opponents’ propaganda and disinformation,” Mr. Kasich said in a national security speech in Washington. “I will consolidate them into a new agency that has a clear mandate to promote the core Judeo-Christian Western values that we and our friends and allies share.” Jeb Bush: “I do think there is a special important need to make sure that Christians from Syria are being protected, because they are being slaughtered in the country, and but for us, who? Who would take care of the number of Christians that right now are completely displaced?” Mr. Bush asked on CBS, while calling for a thorough screening of refugees and the creation of safe zones in Syria. Senator Marco Rubio: “It’s not that we don’t want to; it’s that we can’t because there’s no way to background check someone that’s coming from Syria,” Mr. Rubio told ABC, reversing his earlier position that some refugees should be taken in. “There is no background check system in the world that allows us to find that out because who do you call in Syria to background check them?” Senator Ted Cruz: “It is the height of lunacy for a government official to welcome in tens of thousands of refugees when we know that among them will be ISIS terrorists,” Mr. Cruz said in Washington, inviting President Obama to debate him personally on the issue. Hillary Rodham Clinton: “We cannot allow terrorists to intimidate us into abandoning our values and humanitarian obligations. Turning away orphans, applying a religious test, discriminating against Muslims, slamming the door on every single Syrian refugee — that’s just not who we are,” Mrs. Clinton said in a foreign policy speech. Senator Bernie Sanders: “While the U.S. and other Western nations have the strength of our militaries and political systems, the fight against ISIS is a struggle for the soul of Islam, and countering violent extremism and destroying ISIS must be done primarily by Muslim nations – with the strong support of their global partners,” Mr. Sanders said in a speech at Georgetown University.