 BALTIMORE — Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. called the Republican presidential primary campaign on Thursday “a gift from the Lord,” drawing hoots of laughter from House Democrats gathered here for three days of strategy sessions.  Mr. Biden, in a lunchtime speech, seemed to be feeling especially grateful for his Republican colleagues, and told Democratic lawmakers that the G.O.P. was making the 2016 campaign easier for them in several ways.  First, Mr. Biden focused on the new House speaker, Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, who has been one of his party’s main spokesmen on fiscal issues for years.  “We shouldn’t apologize for what we are for, and we should point out what they are for,” Mr. Biden said. “Paul Ryan is a lovely guy. He gave us such a gift. He passed the Ryan budget.”  The room erupted in laughter, but Mr. Biden said he wasn’t kidding.  “No, no, no, no, no,” he said. “I am being deadly earnest. You guys don’t have to make anything up.” Democrats laughed even louder.   Mr. Ryan’s fiscal blueprints, of which he is proud, include drastic cuts to Social Security and Medicare, and sweeping tax cuts, many that would benefit the wealthiest Americans.  “You don’t have to make this up,” Mr. Biden added. “It’s real. It’s what they passed.”  But the vice president drew his biggest laughs when he turned to the Republican presidential contest.  “By the way, we may have been given a gift from the Lord in the presidential race,” Mr. Biden said. “I don’t know who to root for more — Cruz, Bush or what’s that guy’s name?”  Asked later about Mr. Biden’s remarks, the House Democratic leader, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, said she missed the comment on the presidential race because she was focused on the poke at Mr. Ryan.  “I was still probably enjoying his remark before about the Ryan budget being a gift and what it does, because it offers the clearest contrast,” Ms. Pelosi said.  Still, Ms. Pelosi noted that some Republican candidates seemed easier for Democrats to run against.  “There’s no question there are some candidates that seem to have more, shall we say, a place we can make a stronger contrast,” Ms. Pelosi said. “Although all of them are starkly different from our Democratic candidates, and we are very proud of our Democratic candidates.”  Pressed about the candidacy of Donald J. Trump, Ms. Pelosi said she had met him but did not expect to be working with him anytime soon.  “The president is the president. We work with the president,” Ms. Pelosi said. “I am a courteous polite person, so I can work with almost everyone.”  But, she added, “I expect to be working with a Democrat as president of the United States.”