 Charles G. Koch, the billionaire conservative businessman and philanthropist, defended the flow of giant donations into political campaigns, saying in an interview on Tuesday that he hoped that money from wealthy contributors would help persuade candidates to end corporate welfare. Appearing on Tuesday on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” with his brother, David H. Koch, Charles Koch was asked about the dominance of a handful of wealthy families, who are providing much of the political money in the 2016 campaign. “You see, to me, it depends on to what end,” Charles Koch said.  “If it’s to get policies that will create, open up opportunities for people and get rid of all this corporatism and corporate welfare, wherein what? Seven out of the richest counties in the country are around Washington, D.C.?  I mean and, and have two-year presidential campaigns where that’s all anybody’s focused on.  Why is that?  It just isn’t random.” The normally press-shy Mr. Koch, who has made a string of recent media appearances to promote his book, “Good Profit,” is helping raise hundreds of millions of dollars this year for conservative political and philanthropic causes, some of which will come out of his own pocket. In return, Mr. Koch said, he hoped to see government officials adopt policies that would limit interference in the free market. “I expect something in return,” Mr. Koch said. “I would love to have the government stop this corporate welfare. That’s what I want. I want the government to, to let companies, or require that companies only profit by helping make other people’s lives better.  That’s what I want and that’s what I’m working for.” Mr. Koch spoke at length about his political philosophy, noting that he and his brother had both voted for Democrats in the past and criticized the presidency of George W. Bush. Mr. Bush, Mr. Koch said, had been “one of the biggest spenders of all-time, created more destructive regulations,” and pulled the United States into “counterproductive wars that made no sense to me at the time.”  That experience, he said, led the family to become more politically active. Mr. Koch, whose political network has hosted forums featuring a number of the Republican candidates, said he was not backing any one contender for now. “I made a vow I’m not going to publicly comment on any candidate,” Mr. Koch said.