 The morning after Donald J. Trump dropped out of the Fox News debate and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas challenged him to a “mano a mano” contest in a forum of his choosing, Mr. Cruz took a break from debate prep in Des Moines to get a bite to eat. As he filled a plate with eggs, Mr. Cruz, who was a decorated debater on the American Parliamentary Debate Association circuit during his college years at Princeton, said, “I would be perfectly open to” debating Mr. Trump according to the circuit’s format, in which debaters propose topics of argument to demonstrate their talent at intellectual acrobatics. Asked Wednesday what resolution he would propose against Mr. Trump, Mr. Cruz said, “Look, at this point it’s all about who should win the Iowa caucus.” If the debate-nerd gods decide that such a contest should take place, Mr. Trump would need some help before taking on a former American Parliamentary Debate Association speaker of the year. For the sake of fair play, which is highly important to Mr. Trump, we turned to Jeremy Philips, who beat Mr. Cruz in the semifinals of the 1995 World Debating Championships, for pointers. “Cruz’s sharp intellect and high principles are extremely effective, but sometimes run the risk of making him sound like a debater,” Mr. Philips wrote in an email, adding that Mr. Trump should stick with his “unorthodox” style, which helps him appear “above the fray.” He added, “There’s plainly no point in trying to out-Cruz Cruz.” Mr. Philips added that, in his experience, Mr. Cruz’s “approach doesn’t always deal well with nuance. Trump’s best foil to that is to present as more reasonable, considered and experienced.” Reasonable and considered are perhaps not the two words that leap to mind when discussing Mr. Trump’s style. But Mr. Philips cautioned Mr. Trump that in the world of American Parliamentary Debate, “theatrics don’t work — the audience might be superficially amused, but at some level they get bored by the triviality.” He also said not to bother trying to knock Mr. Cruz off his game. “Cruz gets the joke and can handle heckling,” Mr. Philips said.