 As much of the Republican Party rallies against Donald J. Trump and his plan to bar Muslims from entering the United States, his top supporters in New Hampshire — the first state to hold a primary election — are standing firmly behind him. Fred Doucette, a state representative who is co-chairman of Mr. Trump’s campaign in New Hampshire, said he has received several calls and emails from fellow supporters who were taken aback by the proposal but that they were supportive once they fully understood his intentions. “I totally agree with him,” Mr. Doucette said. “I totally agree we need to secure our borders. We are at war.” Mr. Trump’s initial announcement was met with some confusion, according to Mr. Doucette, who said that he thought the Trump campaign could have been more clear about the fact that the plan was not directed at American Muslims. “It may seem radical now to some people but it’s coming across in the wrong fashion,” Mr. Doucette said. “Let’s worry about Americans first and the rest of the world later. People talk about the constitutional issue. I’m sorry, unless you’re American you’re not covered under the Constitution.” Mr. Trump has said that he has more than 1,000 endorsements in New Hampshire, where he has been leading in the polls. According to Mr. Doucette, announcements of more endorsements are planned this week. There has been resistance to Mr. Trump in the state, with Jennifer Horn, the state chairwoman of the Republican Party, calling his idea for blocking Muslims from entering the country “un-American.” But, so far, Mr. Trump’s biggest backers are sticking with him. State Representative Stephen Stepanek, another co-chairman of Mr. Trump’s New Hampshire campaign, also defended the billionaire developer on Tuesday and said that the backlash has been overblown. “He’s not saying we’re going to ban everybody forever,” Mr. Stepanek, a former chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. “His plan is we’ve got to put a temporary hold until we have a better system to vet all people coming in.” Mr. Stepanek said he understood that all Muslims are not terrorists but that he thinks that all terrorists are Muslims, making such a ban necessary. Mr. Trump said on Tuesday that his idea has been done before in American history, pointing to treatment of Germans, Italians and Japanese during World War II, and said that under his plan, travelers would be asked if they are Muslim upon arriving in the United States.