 
Updated, 4:09 p.m. | 
After some deliberation, Senator Bernie Sanders has agreed to face Hillary Clinton in an additional debate on Thursday night.  The Democratic National Committee had sanctioned only six debates for its candidates this election cycle. But with the race between Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders tightening in recent months, there was demand for more opportunities to hash out their policy differences in person. While Mr. Sanders had called for more debates, negotiations between the campaigns over the details  dragged on, leaving Thursday’s event uncertain. On Wednesday, Mr. Sanders said he would be there.  “The answer is yes, and you know that I have always wanted more debates and Secretary Clinton in the beginning was not so interested in more debates,” Mr. Sanders said on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” program. “Now suddenly they’re very interested in more debates.” The Vermont senator said he also wanted to have debates in California, Michigan and New York City. Democratic debates are already scheduled for Feb. 11 and March 9, and the Democratic National Committee said it would sanction more if the campaigns agreed.  The D.N.C. said on Wednesday afternoon that the candidates had agreed to hold a debate in Flint, Mich., on March 6. There will also be debates in April and May with times and locations to be determined. Mrs. Clinton’s rivals accused her last year of avoiding more debates, and Mr. Sanders suggested that she only wanted more now because she won so narrowly in the Iowa caucuses and was facing a tough contest in Tuesday’s primary in New Hampshire.  “It may have something to do with the fact that the nature of this campaign has changed a little bit and now they’re getting a little bit nervous,” Mr. Sanders said. “Now they want more debates. That’s fine, I love debates.” Thursday’s debate, hosted by MSNBC at 9 p.m., will be the first time that Mr. Sanders and Mrs. Clinton face off one-on-one, as former Gov. Martin O’Malley of Maryland dropped out of the race after getting less than 1 percent of the Iowa vote.  The debate will be held at the University of New Hampshire in Durham, with Chuck Todd of NBC News and Rachel Maddow of MSNBC the scheduled moderators.