 The White House has lined up more meetings between the Supreme Court nominee Judge Merrick B. Garland and Republican lawmakers, with Senators Susan Collins of Maine and John Boozman of Arkansas scheduled to sit down with him on Tuesday. Ms. Collins has been outspoken in her view that Judge Garland, whom she has supported in the past, deserves consideration, while Mr. Boozman’s position was uncertain. White House officials will hope the example set by the two, and by Senator Mark S. Kirk, Republican of Illinois, who met with Judge Garland this week, will lead other Republicans to follow suit. In a radio interview in her home state this week, Ms. Collins said she saw “no basis” for the Republican leadership’s decision essentially to ignore the nomination and cite the presidential campaign as the rationale. She also said she had been encouraging other Republicans to meet with Judge Garland, saying he might be preferable to an alternative chosen if Democrats win the White House in November.  “I’ve always found that one-on-one meetings with nominees and the in-depth hearings we have in the Judiciary Committee are the best ways to thoroughly understand a nominee’s views,” she said. While the focus is on the Republicans who are willing to break with the leadership and meet with the judge, Democrats will continue to hold sessions with him as well. White House officials say the nominee will also meet with Senators Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire and Joe Manchin III of West Virginia on Tuesday. On Wednesday, he is scheduled to sit down with Senators Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, Dianne Feinstein of California and Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island. And on Thursday, his schedule includes Senators Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, Sherrod Brown of Ohio and Chris Coons of Delaware.  The White House and Senate Democrats say they believe they have made progress during the two-week recess now coming to a close, with more Republicans showing a willingness to meet with Judge Garland and the Judiciary Committee indicating it would accept a background questionnaire on him from the White House. But there have been no signs from top Republicans that a confirmation hearing is in the foreseeable future.