 Good Thursday morning. As Tuesday’s Democratic debate brought some new texture to the contest, so, too, will Thursday night’s filing deadlines, when the candidates must reveal their campaigns’ financial particulars. Though many with significant hauls have already released the amounts they’ve brought in, Jeb Bush is not among them, bringing up questions about potential fund-raising concerns and the kinds of whispers that love to fill such silence. In the next 17 hours, the contours of both presidential nominating contests will become clearer. The campaign finance filings for the third fund-raising quarter of the year are due by midnight. They will contain not just how much was raised from whom, but exactly how much money each campaign had in the bank as of Sept. 30. Though many other teams have released their numbers, Mr. Bush’s campaign has not yet said how much it had raised, or how much it still has in the bank. But officials with the campaign, which put in place a series of budget-cutting measures over the summer after heavy spending early on, said that Mr. Bush planned to simultaneously release his medical records and the list of his bundlers. The extra effort toward transparency could also help obscure any less-than-positive news in his numbers. The filings will also reveal how much each campaign has spent, and on what. For some perspective, Mitt Romney, the Republican nominee in 2012, was one of two potential establishment prospects, along with Rick Perry, who raised just over $14 million in the third quarter of 2011. Ben Carson, the former neurosurgeon and first-time candidate, has already outpaced that figure from grass-roots donors. But other than Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who raised about $12 million, and perhaps Mr. Bush, no one else in the field is poised to come close to what Mr. Romney raised. For instance, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who is catching the eye of some undecided donors, reported raising $6 million. The amounts the candidates have in the bank, and what they have already invested in, are useful indicators of how far they may be able to take their campaigns. The filings will show how much Hillary Rodham Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont have spent. And Martin O’Malley, who has been stuck in low single digits in the polls but who is hoping for a late break in the Iowa caucuses, has not said what he has raised. — Maggie Haberman What We’re Watching Today —   Mrs. Clinton will hold events in Texas, where she is expected to be endorsed by Julián Castro, the secretary of Housing and Urban Development. —  President Obama will speak at a reception for Hispanic Heritage Month and for the 25th anniversary of the White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for Hispanics, while Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. will meet with President Park Geun-hye of South Korea. —  Mr. Rubio, who has reportedly been drawing the attention of high-profile donors, will speak to the Republican Committee of Chester County in King of Prussia, Pa. Our Favorites from the Times What We’re Reading Elsewhere — The Washington Post takes a look at Jim Webb’s answer to a debate question about the political enemy he is most proud of making: “the enemy soldier that threw the grenade that wounded me.” — Mr. Carson, who while discussing gun control last week said that the Holocaust may have turned out differently if Jews had been armed, wrote an op-ed article in The Jerusalem Post saying that “I never intended for my words to diminish the enormity of the tragedy or in any way to cause any pain for Holocaust survivors or their families.” He also said “personalities and politics” had strained the relationship between the United States and Israel. — And in an interview with CNN, Donald J. Trump’s daughter Ivanka Trump said that though her “father is very blunt,” his comments about Megyn Kelly and Carly Fiorina were not evidence of sexism. “I don’t think that he’s gender-targeted at all,” she said. “Like I said, I wouldn’t be the person I am today, I wouldn’t be a high-level executive within his organization if he felt that way,” she said.