 Nicole Bell, whose fiancé, Sean Bell, became a symbol of tensions between black communities and the police after he was shot and killed by New York officers on the morning of their wedding day, has endorsed Hillary Clinton two weeks before the New York primary. “Nine years ago, I lost my fiancé, Sean Bell, in a police-involved shooting, and unfortunately, there are too many families with stories like mine,” Ms. Bell said in a statement provided Saturday to The New York Times. Mrs. Clinton, she said, “understands that we need reforms that can be felt on our streets and in our communities and that she “will stand up to the gun lobby, work to end racial profiling, and make key investments to ensure that law enforcement officials have adequate training.” In 2006, plainclothes and undercover police officers fired into Mr. Bell’s car 50 times, killing him and wounding two of his friends; the men were leaving a strip club in Queens where Mr. Bell had celebrated his bachelor party. The shooting rocked the city and drew responses from civil rights activists and elected officials, including Mrs. Clinton, who was a senator representing New York at the time. Mr. Bell and his friends were not armed. The three detectives charged in the shooting were acquitted on all counts. A judge ruled that based on conversations overheard around the club, the detectives had reason to believe that someone in the group was armed as Mr. Bell tried to drive away from the officers, at one point crashing into an unmarked police van. Still, the city paid $7 million in a settlement to Mr. Bell’s family and his two wounded friends. The detectives were forced out of the department. The endorsement of Ms. Bell, who took her fiancé’s last name to honor his memory, comes as Mrs. Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders vie for the support of New York City’s black voters before the April 19 primary. Mrs. Clinton held a rally at the Apollo Theater on Wednesday, while Mr. Sanders addressed a crowd of more than 15,000 in the Bronx on Thursday, where the Brooklyn-born director Spike Lee spoke on his behalf. In the first major policy speech of her campaign, Mrs. Clinton last spring called for an overhaul of the criminal justice system and an end to the “era of mass incarceration.” She has received broad support from mothers who have lost children to clashes with police or gun violence, and has held campaign events with the mothers of Trayvon Martin, Eric Garner and Sandra Bland. Mr. Sanders has received the endorsement of Mr. Garner’s daughter, Erica Garner, but he has had to catch up with Mrs. Clinton’s deep ties to African-American voters in New York, the Midwest and the South, who have tilted heavily to her. “Hillary gets it,” Ms. Bell said. “Nine years ago, Hillary Clinton was there for me, and today, I’m with her.”