 Spencer Zwick, the Republican fund-raiser who is deeply close to the former presidential nominee Mitt Romney and who raises money for the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, has periodically met with Donald J. Trump, including around the time he began his winning streak of nominating contests in February.  The meetings are noteworthy at a moment when the Republican Party has been divided between those supporting Mr. Trump and those who are opposing him as the party’s standard-bearer. Mr. Romney has been highly critical of Mr. Trump, and Mr. Ryan, with whom Mr. Trump will meet on Thursday, has said he is not ready to endorse Mr. Trump for the party’s presidential nomination. Mr. Zwick, who is often described as Mr. Romney’s “sixth son” and who was a co-founder of the private equity firm Solamere Capital with Mr. Romney’s son Tagg, said in an interview that he had made clear before the primaries began that he was available to meet with anyone interested in discussing the fund-raising process. Mr. Zwick was credited with snatching for Mr. Romney portions of the networks established by Senator John McCain of Arizona and Rudolph W. Giuliani during the 2008 presidential campaign. Mr. Zwick said he had also met with Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio before he suspended his campaign. Mr. Zwick said he could not remember precisely when he last saw Mr. Trump, though he conceded that it might have been after he won the New Hampshire primary, the first victory that Mr. Trump scored and the one that snowballed into wins in South Carolina and Nevada soon after.  In early February, right before Mr. Trump won the New Hampshire primary, Mr. Zwick praised Mr. Trump as a brilliant political mind. Less than four weeks later, Mr. Romney gave a speech in Salt Lake City, condemning Mr. Trump’s caustic comments, which he had grown concerned about over many months.  Mr. Zwick’s conversations with Mr. Trump’s aides included sit-downs earlier in the process. Mr. Zwick insisted that the more recent meetings were not about gaining proximity to the potential nominee and emphasized that he was trying to spread his fund-raising expertise. “I am committed to Paul Ryan,” he said, adding he has “no plans to work” on the presidential race.  In 2012, when Mr. Romney sought an endorsement from Mr. Trump, Mr. Zwick was said to be one of the people on the campaign who believed the New York developer could be an asset for fund-raising.