 Denouncing the “corrupt gridlock” in Washington and wage stagnation across the country, Michael R. Bloomberg bemoaned a lack of solutions from the  2016 presidential candidates on Thursday night, the most explicit rationale he has offered for why he is considering a third-party campaign of his own. “This really has been a race to the extremes,” Mr. Bloomberg, the former New York City mayor, said in remarks at his philanthropic foundation on the Upper East Side, as he introduced the veteran Republican speechwriter Peggy Noonan at a celebration of the release of her new book. Ms. Noonan, Mr. Bloomberg said, has explained that the current candidates “sense that America has lost faith with its institutions.” But “instead of trying to fix it,” he added, the candidates are “trying to exploit it.” “The list of supposed villains we hear about is long,” Mr. Bloomberg said, but the solutions are “in short supply.” The most pressing problems in the country, he said, were “wage stagnation at home, American retreat around the world” and a “corrupt gridlock and two-party system that answers to lobbyists and special interests instead of the American people.”  These issues created an opening for the success that outsider candidates are seeing so far in the race, he said. “That’s why you see the kind of candidates out there doing well,” Mr. Bloomberg said. “And not the conventional ones.” He didn’t mention his own explorations directly. He also didn’t mention either Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont or Donald J. Trump by name, but his remarks were a clear reference to each. “I know you don’t solve problems by pointing fingers, or making pie-in-the-sky promises,” Mr. Bloomberg said, saying that fixes come from “bringing people together around common goals, promoting innovation, demonstrating independence, and recognizing that compromise is not a bad word.”  Mr. Bloomberg’s comments were his most explicit expression of frustration with the state of the 2016 presidential race, and they came less than two weeks before his self-imposed deadline for a decision on an independent campaign. For months, Mr. Bloomberg’s top advisers have quietly explored the prospect of a bid for the White House, and he has indicated he would be willing to spend $1 billion of his own fortune on the race, should he conclude that there is a path to victory. So far, the 2016 primaries have been inviting for an independent politician who would run as a business-minded technocrat. The early success of Mr. Trump on the Republican side, and Mr. Sanders on the Democratic side, would seem to leave a vacant lane in the political center. Mr. Bloomberg’s advisers said he was taking a new and intensive round of political polling after the New Hampshire primary this month, to gauge his chances in a national election. Political leaders in both parties remain skeptical that Mr. Bloomberg will enter the race, or that if he did, he would be able to win the 270 votes in the Electoral College required to capture the presidency. But Mr. Bloomberg’s potential adversaries have eyed his preparations warily. At a recent briefing hosted by advisers to Charles G. and David H. Koch, the conservative billionaire brothers, Mr. Bloomberg’s possible campaign was the subject of a slide in a presentation on the 2016 election, according to people familiar with the presentation, who discussed it on the condition of anonymity because the session was intended to be confidential. Mr. Bloomberg was depicted in the briefing as a big-government politician who had wielded his power too freely. In an allusion to Mr. Bloomberg’s attempt as mayor to ban large sodas, the slide on his 2016 plans was illustrated with an image of a Big Gulp. James Davis, a spokesman for Freedom Partners, a group backed by the Kochs, confirmed that Mr. Bloomberg’s record had been reviewed as part of a presentation on the 2016 field. Mr. Davis said Mr. Bloomberg was seen as a “nanny state mayor” who had taken positions on issues like health care and gun control that were at odds with small-government conservatism. “There’s a litany of things in his record where he takes the position that government should control more decisions for Americans,” Mr. Davis said. “That’s just vastly different from where we stand on the issues.”  Both Mr. Trump and Mr. Sanders have said they would welcome the contrast with Mr. Bloomberg as an opponent in the race. Hillary Clinton said in a television interview that she believed Mr. Bloomberg would run only if Mr. Sanders were the Democratic nominee. Because of the deadlines an independent candidate must meet in order to get his name on all 50 state ballots, Mr. Bloomberg’s advisers believe he must make a final decision by early March. That means he may have to make up his mind based in large part on the results of the Super Tuesday primaries on March 1, when large states like Texas and Virginia go to the polls. The crowd at the event, comprising Bloomberg administration aides and political advisers, was primed for some kind of statement from Mr. Bloomberg, and gasped when he said he had an announcement to make. He then quickly made a joke about the New York Knicks.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.