 Donald J. Trump seems aware that he has a fight on his hands in New Hampshire, and that he needs to battle to at least a draw.  At a rally in the state on Monday night, Mr. Trump opened his remarks by urging the crowd to come out and vote, and to prove the “dishonest media” wrong by doing so. He talked about an issue that New Hampshire residents take seriously — preserving the state’s unique status as the first to hold a primary in the presidential process, right after the Iowa caucuses.  “You have a lot of power — I mean, you have a lot of power,” Mr. Trump said. At another point, the crowd corrected him when he gave the wrong date of the primary. He talked about the heroin-addiction epidemic in the state, a major issue that voters at almost every rally seem affected by, in one way or another.  “I hear so much about that from people up here,” Mr. Trump said. But then he pivoted to a familiar refrain: “And you know, we’re gonna build a wall. We’re gonna have a real border.”  And therein is the problem for Mr. Trump, who is losing ground in Iowa to Senator Ted Cruz of Texas even as he consistently tops polls in New Hampshire. But Mr. Trump faces a field of people vying to be the establishment candidate, including Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, Jeb Bush and Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio. Mr. Trump is an exceptional political performer who, by now, could have developed a message beyond his core, and no front-runner can risk two straight losses.  Mr. Christie was very much in Mr. Trump’s sights throughout the day on Monday, first in an interview with WMUR-TV and later at his rally. In both, he amplified attacks against Mr. Christie as only Mr. Trump has been able to do this cycle, and took aim at Joseph W. McQuaid, the publisher of the influential New Hampshire Union Leader, which has endorsed Mr. Christie.  Another person who has been a recent target of Mr. Trump is Bill Clinton, the former president who has deep ties to New Hampshire. Mr. Trump and Mr. Clinton will be in New Hampshire on Monday, as the former president campaigns for Hillary Clinton.  Mr. Trump has raised some of the baggage involving the impeachment of Mr. Clinton, a reminder that Mrs. Clinton may continue to face questions about the 1990s, no matter who is the nominee. Whether voters are interested in hearing about it remains to be seen. 