 Hillary Rodham Clinton has in the past week tried to keep the news media glare focused squarely on the Republican candidates. She has delivered her standard stump speech in Iowa, flown with her head down on a commercial flight to Chicago and remained relatively under the radar, even while attending star-studded fund-raisers hosted by Christina Aguilera and Rob Reiner. But on Friday night, Mrs. Clinton will meet her Democratic opponents in a presidential candidates forum at Winthrop University in Rock Hill, S.C., where she likely will be pressed to respond to Senator Bernie Sanders’s recent attacks on her character and her record on issues important to liberals. Because the Democratic National Committee has not approved the event as an official debate, the First in the South Presidential Candidates Forum, hosted by the South Carolina Democratic Party and Representative James E. Clyburn, cannot present the candidates onstage at the same time. Instead, the moderator, MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow, will question each candidate individually. Former Gov. Martin O’Malley of Maryland will also attend. The event comes as Mr. Sanders, the Vermont senator, has backed away from his comments in the first Democratic debate in Las Vegas last month seeming to defend Mrs. Clinton over her use of a private email server while secretary of state.  “The American public are sick and tired of hearing about your damn emails,” he said, in a remarkable moment that seemed to absolve his opponent of one of the central potential weaknesses of her candidacy. But in an interview with The Wall Street Journal published on Thursday, Mr. Sanders said Mrs. Clinton’s use of the private server, if it was used to conceal her correspondence from federal records requests or to communicate classified information, raised “valid questions.” The comments coincide with Mr. Sanders appearing to shift his strategy as he has seen his edge against Mrs. Clinton in Iowa and New Hampshire evaporate in recent weeks.  Mrs. Clinton also faces a challenge in convincing voters that she can be trusted. A CBS News poll released last month showed 61 percent of registered voters said they did not trust Mrs. Clinton. The next official Democratic debate will take place in Des Moines on Nov. 14, but the South Carolina forum could offer a preview of how Mr. Sanders will try to revive his candidacy. Cutting down Mrs. Clinton too handily could appear counter to Mr. Sanders’s image as a nontraditional politician more focused on alleviating the gap between rich and poor than on engaging in a political fistfight. Asked on Thursday whether he was ready to “kick some Republican butt,” Mr. Sanders made a less than veiled reference to Mrs. Clinton. “There’s some earlier butt we have to deal with,” he said. 