 Senator John Hoeven, Republican of North Dakota, met quietly with Judge Merrick B. Garland on Thursday, and after their sit-down expressed unusually pointed opposition to Judge Garland’s Supreme Court nomination based on concerns about his record. Mr. Hoeven said he would not support Judge Garland, who is the chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, because he had not alleviated his discomfort about his perspective on gun rights and federal regulations that would affect those working in farming, ranching and energy sectors. “Ultimately, I must do what’s best for our state, and based on his judicial record and our meeting today, I believe Judge Garland will make decisions counter to North Dakota’s interests and I cannot support his confirmation,” Mr. Hoeven said in a statement. Mr. Hoeven, who has said from the beginning that he would not support President Obama’s nominee, did not repeat the argument that the voters should have a chance to weigh in on who chooses Justice Antonin Scalia’s replacement on the bench, as many Republicans have done. Rather he took the striking step of expressing opposition to Judge Garland himself. Mr. Hoeven’s meeting was also notable for how it happened — with perhaps the least fanfare of any sit-down between a senator and Judge Garland to date. Mr. Hoeven’s spokesman did not respond to an inquiry last month about whether he would meet with Mr. Obama’s pick, and he did not confirm the meeting Thursday until after it had occurred. Judge Garland met Wednesday with Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. Mr. Graham reversed his original opposition to meeting with the judge, but he made it clear that he had not changed his mind about his nomination. “Judge Garland is a fine man, but this seat should be filled by the next president,” Mr. Graham said in a video released by his office on Wednesday. Mr. Hoeven is the 11th Republican to meet with Judge Garland, who also met with Senators Robert Menendez of New Jersey and Tim Kaine of Virginia, both Democrats, on Thursday. Nine other Republicans have said they would sit down with the nominee but have yet to do so.
Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.