 HERSHEY, Pa. — The morning after a crushing defeat, Senator Ted Cruz dismissed Donald J. Trump’s garnering of about 60 percent of Republican primary votes in New York as the expected spoils of a home-state advantage.  “Truly a remarkable achievement,” Mr. Cruz said, sarcasm dripping. At a campaign rally in Pennsylvania, which votes on Tuesday along with four other Eastern states, the Texas senator criticized the news media for rushing to crown Mr. Trump all but the presumptive nominee. “Here are a few facts they may not tell you,’’ he said. “I won 13,000 more votes in Wisconsin than Donald Trump did last night in New York.’’ He declared that his five latest victories — in Wisconsin, Utah, North Dakota, Colorado and Wyoming — represented a broader ideological and geographic diversity than Mr. Trump’s win in New York. Mr. Cruz, who left New York on Monday night for Pennsylvania, is hoping for a comeback with the state’s more conservative electorate, especially between Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, a rural region that the Democratic political strategist James Carville once famously cracked was like Alabama.  “Donald and the media want to convince you that Pennsylvania is a suburb of Manhattan,” said Mr. Cruz, who finished third in New York in a three-man race.  Mr. Cruz was introduced at Wednesday’s rally by the former presidential candidate Carly Fiorina, now a top Cruz surrogate, who also played down the significance of Mr. Trump winning his home state in her remarks.  Campaign aides pressed handbills onto the crowd with an official slate of Cruz-supporting conventional delegates, who will share the ballot in Pennsylvania with the three Republican presidential hopefuls.  The Cruz campaign is trying mightily to educate Republicans who will vote in the primary, when delegates to the national convention will be directly elected, about which candidates support Mr. Cruz. Unlike almost every other state, Pennsylvania’s majority of delegates, 54, will arrive at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland on July 18-21 unbound to a candidate. If neither Mr. Trump nor Mr. Cruz carries a majority of pledged delegates into the convention, unbound delegates could be kingmakers. The 26 names on the Cruz slate, who are running in 14 congressional districts, have declared that they will support the Texas senator through thick and thin – or, at least, on multiple ballots. Many Cruz supporters confessed they were ignorant about the process. “In the past it’s barely been brought up,’’ said Sheri Sherman, a home-school parent from Lebanon, Pa. “I need more information about it. It’s complicated.’’ Brad Gehret, a technology expert from Camp Hill, held the handbill identifying delegates by “CD2” or “CD11,’’ for each congressional district, and confessed he had “no idea” which district he voted in. “I don’t recognize any of these people,’’ he said.  But Jodi Ferris, another home-school parent, said she would study the list. “If I haven’t committed it to memory, I’ll bring it in’’ to the voting booth, she said. 