 Updated, 10:23 a.m. |  Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin threw his support behind Senator Ted Cruz’s presidential campaign on Tuesday, calling him the strongest conservative to represent the Republican Party in the general election and defeat Hillary Clinton if she is the Democratic nominee. The endorsement comes a week before Wisconsin holds its pivotal primary on April 5. Mr. Cruz is desperately trying to catch up with Donald J. Trump in the race for delegates and Mr. Walker’s support could offer a needed boost in a close contest. Polls show the two candidates essentially deadlocked with Gov. John Kasich of Ohio trailing.  — Scott Walker (@ScottWalker) March 29, 2016  In an interview with Milwaukee’s WTMJ Radio, Mr. Walker praised Mr. Cruz’s tax plan and foreign policy views and called him a principled conservative who has shown a willingness to take on Washington. Mr. Walker also vouched for Mr. Cruz’s character, calling him a kindred spirit and fellow heir to the legacy of former President Ronald Reagan who is often misunderstood. “He is a decent man, he loves his family, he loves his wife, he adores his children, he adores his country,” Mr. Walker said. “He and I are both preachers’ kids.” Mr. Walker was briefly the favorite for the Republican nomination last year before his campaign fizzled out in September as Mr. Trump gained popularity in Iowa. He was no fan of the former reality television star, and regularly quipped, “We don’t need an apprentice in the White House.” On Tuesday, Mr. Walker declined to criticize Mr. Trump and made clear that his support for Mr. Cruz was not an attempt to block the leading Republican candidate.  “I’m supporting someone not against something or someone,” Mr. Walker said, explaining that he spent considerable time comparing the Republican candidates praying about his decision. “It was an easy call for me to support Ted Cruz.” Mr. Walker has said he had been saving his endorsement so that it would have maximum impact ahead of his state’s primary. While he has expressed admiration for Mr. Kasich, a fellow Republican governor from the Midwest, Mr. Walker suggested this week that voters might start turning to Mr. Cruz when the realize that he is the only one who can secure enough delegates to stop Mr. Trump.  Mr. Cruz has been hoping to win Mr. Walker’s endorsement and has been heaping praise upon his onetime opponent as he travels the state. The radio interview was piped into the campaign event where Mr. Cruz was scheduled to speak, and the crowd cheered as Mr. Walker said he was backing the Texas senator. The influence of Mr. Walker in the primary contest remains unclear. His positions on unions have made him a polarizing figure in the state but he is well regarded among Republicans.  Mr. Walker said that he plans to travel with Mr. Cruz as he campaigns across the state this week and assist him in any way possible. Mr. Trump, meanwhile, said he was not expecting any help from the governor.  — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 28, 2016 