 Eight miles away from where Republican presidential candidates clashed over their stances on national security and terrorism policies Tuesday, a crowd of mostly Democratic Las Vegas residents responded with bewilderment, skeptical laughter and mostly exasperation. About 100 people gathered at a watch party hosted by the Service Employees International Union Local 1107, a labor union that represents more than 17,000 health care and public service employees in Nevada. Many sitting around the union’s office expressed frustration with the candidates, saying that their answers to questions about immigration contained divisive language and that Republicans’ plans to combat terrorism failed to consider the families of service members. They also said the debate, which was heavily focused on national security, could have included discussion on how to create more jobs and raise wages of working-class Americans. “These candidates aren’t Nevada,” said Annette Magnus, 31, executive director of Battle Born Progress, a progressive public relations firm based in Nevada. “They are just out of touch with what real Nevadans think and believe. We are still struggling and dealing with the recession here. We haven’t fully recovered yet. We still need a good living wage here. We still need access to affordable health care.” Ms. Magnus added that Nevada is home to thousands of immigrants who won’t benefit from the so-called hate speech of some candidates or the alarming oratory used when discussing undocumented people. “They are trying to out-extreme each other,” Ms. Magnus said. “It’s upsetting.” Others were upset, too, but also laughed during certain moments of the debate, including when Donald J. Trump and Jeb Bush got into a heated exchange about Mr. Bush’s calling Mr. Trump “unhinged.” Chuckles got even louder as Mr. Bush called Mr. Trump a “chaos candidate.” At another point, a woman shouted at the large television screening the debate as Senator Marco Rubio of Florida said, “It’s not that America doesn’t want to accept refugees.” She quickly interrupted saying, “No, it is.” Howard Watts, 28, a freelance consultant to nonprofits who lives in Las Vegas, thought the event was filled with candidates who dodged a lot of questions and played on people’s anxieties. “The candidates are expressing this kind of hatred for people of different ethnic and religious backgrounds,” said Mr. Watts, a registered Democrat. “They talk about the country in a way that really increases fear and doesn’t speak to hope for a better outcome.” For others like Laura Martin, 34, and Aurelio J. Buhay, 31, both registered Democrats, the debate hinged on what they saw as the candidates’ failure to properly weigh the impact their foreign policy plans will have on service members. A couple of candidates hinted at a “boots on the ground” approach to fighting the Islamic State and others talked of bombing campaigns.  Both of Ms. Martin’s parents served in the military and she grew up around military families in Hawaii and Colorado. Now, her 18-year-old sister is in the National Guard. “It’s crazy to hear them say, ‘Let’s bomb people. Let’s kill people,’ like it’s a game,” said Ms. Martin, who works at a nonprofit. “It almost feels like they have been so sequestered in the executive life by either being a senator or a governor or whatever that they don’t get it. They don’t understand the consequences and effects a president can have on people’s lives, literally.” Mr. Buhay recalled his six years in the Air Force and his tours of duty in Iraq, Afghanistan and Kyrgyzstan. “For me, I don’t think that they’re thinking about the human effects of sending people, having boots on the ground,” said Mr. Buhay, who works as a community organizer for a nonprofit. “They just want to have all this macho talk.”