 DAVENPORT, Iowa — Nearly every time a politician has dared to offer him censure, Donald J. Trump has responded by tagging his adversary with an impish nickname. In Mr. Trump’s world, Ted Cruz became “Lyin’ Ted,” Marco Rubio was “Little Marco,” and Hillary Clinton remains “Crooked Hillary.” At a pair of rallies in Iowa on Thursday, Mr. Trump seemed to confer a new term of non-endearment, referring with great disdain to a certain “very little guy.” “I was going to hit one guy in particular, a very little guy,” he told a crowd of supporters in Davenport. “I was going to hit this guy so hard his head would spin, he wouldn’t know what the hell happened.” Although this particular object of Mr. Trump’s disaffection went unnamed, he seemed to be referring to Michael R. Bloomberg. The two have traded barbs for months. In February, Mr. Trump urged Mr. Bloomberg, the former New York City mayor, to run for president as an independent because he would “beat him.” The campaign did not immediately return phone messages seeking clarification on whom Mr. Trump was referring to “He was a friend of mine,” Mr. Trump said in an appearance on Fox Business Network. “As far as I’m concerned, he’s not a friend of mine anymore.” Mr. Bloomberg has expressed dismay over Mr. Trump’s rise for several months, but this week at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia he provided his most searing critique yet. “I’m a New Yorker and I know a con when we see one,” Mr. Bloomberg said on Wednesday night, endorsing Hillary Clinton. He added, “The bottom line is: Trump is a risky, reckless, and radical choice.” On Thursday, Mr. Trump implied that he was shocked by the salvo by the “very little guy” because they had done business together. “He came out of nowhere,” Mr. Trump said. “He made deals with me. ‘Will you help me with this? Would you make this deal and solve the problem?’ I solved the problem. I do a great job.” In a freewheeling speech in Davenport, Mr. Trump said that he was so infuriated by disparaging remarks made about him at the Democratic convention that he “wanted to hit a couple of those speakers so hard” but that he was counseled by “a highly respected governor” to show restraint. Still, Mr. Bloomberg wasn’t the only New York City mayor to receive Mr. Trump’s disparagement. He also criticized Bill de Blasio. “We have the worst mayor in the United States, de Blasio, who is the worst mayor in the United States, like not even a contest,” Mr. Trump said, adding, “He’s a disaster.”