 The prospect of a contested convention is the fantasy of political pundits and the nightmare of party elders, but with the crowded field of Republican presidential candidates whittling down so slowly, failing to plan the possibility of one could be dangerous. That was the warning issued by Benjamin Ginsberg, former counsel to the presidential campaigns of Mitt Romney and George W. Bush, who laid out the chaotic convention scenarios Republicans could face in an op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal on Tuesday. While it remains most likely that a clear winner will emerge from the primary election process, he said, the odds are no longer infinitesimal that no candidate will head to Cleveland with the delegates necessary to clinch the nomination. In that event, what would happen next? Mr. Ginsberg outlined two events that would leave Republican leaders scrambling to sort out who will represent the party in the general election: a “clear cluster” and a “party buster.” In the first case, several candidates would be hundreds of delegates short of winning the nomination, creating a free-for-all that could last all four nights or longer. In the second case, a candidate who is dozens of delegates short of the 1,237 needed, could lead to subsequent ballots with unbound delegates in flux and free to back other candidates. “This situation can unsettle any convention and would require whip operations like no candidate has had for generations,” Mr. Ginsberg wrote. Votes at the credentials and rules committees ahead of the July convention will be important tests of how strong the candidates are and challenges to over delegate slates. The party registration of individual delegates could go from being arcane to crucial if the nomination is not locked up. The Republican National Committee held a meeting earlier this month where talk of a contested convention came up, raising fears among outsider candidates that the establishment was going to manipulate the process. Officials said that they were merely getting ready for anything and that they expected that a nominee would emerge without last-minute jockeying. With the convention coming earlier this year than in previous cycles, Mr. Ginsberg said Republicans should hope for a smooth convention for the good of the party. But failing to prepare for chaos would be political malpractice. “It takes considerable time to plan sessions, slot roll-call votes, find speakers if there’s no clear nominee, and be sure that the arena and hotel rooms are available if the convention goes more than four days,” he wrote.