 The A.F.L.-C.I.O., the federation of unions representing nearly 10 million workers, is preparing plans for a “super PAC” that would raise tens of millions of dollars and focus on grass-roots efforts to mobilize voters. The director of the federation’s campaigns department, David Boundy, recently presented the proposal in San Diego, where officials from the federation and its member unions gathered for its winter meeting last week. According to three people who sat in on at least one of Mr. Boundy’s presentations, the proposal calls for a separately funded entity that would raise money from unions, and potentially from progressive donors as well. Under the proposal, which has not been formally agreed to by the unions likely to be involved, each union would receive a seat on the super PAC’s governing board for every $1 million they contribute, up to a limit of five seats, suggesting that some large unions might contribute at least $5 million. The super PAC would hire its own staff. “We’re always looking to work with others to build the best mobilization program possible,” said Eric Hauser, the federation’s communications director. The impetus for the proposal, whose existence Politico first reported last week, is threefold, according to these sources. The first is a recognition of the need for a permanent infrastructure that develops sustained relationships with voters through direct contact (as opposed to advertising), which most organizers believe is far more effective than mobilization efforts that come into being several months before an election and then disappear. The hope would be to mobilize voters around issues of importance to labor as much as around candidates. At one of Mr. Boundy’s presentations, Lee Saunders, the president of the 1.6-million member American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, who under the proposal would lead the board of the new super PAC, emphasized to his fellow union presidents the importance of creating a long-term, independent way to reach and mobilize voters. The second motivation is a concern on the part of A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials that the network of conservative philanthropists assembled by Charles G. and David H. Koch is far along in building a sophisticated turnout infrastructure that could give Republican candidates an advantage in November’s elections. These officials note that Americans for Prosperity, a group funded by the Koch network, has hired field staff in numerous states. Officials at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. believe the asymmetry could be exacerbated by President Obama’s absence from the top of the ballot, who created a cutting edge turnout operation for his campaigns, although other progressive groups have been active in this area. Third, there is a frustration on the part of some officials that many unions have gone to great lengths to help turn out voters on behalf of Democratic candidates in previous cycles, both getting voters to the polls and collecting voter data, only to be sidelined once the election season ends. The unions believe that their priorities will be more prominent in the minds of officeholders if they own and control the get-out-the-vote infrastructure, and if it outlives each campaign cycle. The idea of unions pooling resources to mobilize voters is not new. In the run-up to the 2004 election, unions, as well as progressive donors like George Soros, contributed to a large turnout apparatus known as America Coming Together, which raised over $100 million. The organization struggled to sustain itself after the election. Several large unions, including Afscme, the American Federation of Teachers, the Service Employees International Union, and the National Education Association — the latter two of which are not part of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. — collaborated on such turnout efforts during the 2014 election cycle. The four unions had been discussing what the next phase of this collaboration might look like for the 2016 campaign, including the possibility of a separately-funded organization, before the A.F.L.-C.I.O. unveiled its proposal in San Diego. The connection between these two separate discussions was not immediately clear, though A.F.L. officials have expressed hope that the two non-A.F.L.-C.I.O. unions would be involved in the new super PAC. (Both unions have yet to indicate whether or not they will.) The sources described the response to the super PAC proposal among union presidents and staff in San Diego as largely positive. But one union official expressed concern about embracing the concept of a super PAC, which many liberals oppose on principle because it is a vehicle wealthy donors can use to spend unlimited amounts of money on candidates’ behalf. Officials at some smaller unions wondered what kind of input they might have into the proposed super PAC if they could not afford to contribute the $1 million that would net them a board seat.