 Under fire for being heartless when it comes to refugees, Gov. Chris Christie on Tuesday defended his view that it was too dangerous to take in persecuted Syrians and warned that America could pay a deadly price for being politically correct about the matter. “We cannot allow ourselves, at a time of great peril, to put ourselves voluntarily at even greater risk just because they think it makes our country look better,” Mr. Christie said in a foreign policy speech at the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington. “This is common sense.” Mr. Christie, a Republican presidential candidate, said that Americans should listen to law enforcement officials who have warned that it could be difficult to filter out potential terrorists amid an influx of Syrian refugees. The New Jersey governor said that the flow of Syrian refugees needed to be halted, and he pointed to remarks by James Comey, the F.B.I. director who said it would be difficult to fully vet people entering the country because of a lack of information about the local population. Last week Mr. Christie said that even young orphans should not be allowed into the United States. “When the F.B.I. director tells me he can do it, then I’ll reconsider,” Mr. Christie said. “I have a responsibility.” President Obama scolded critics of the refugee program last week, suggesting that it was un-American to turn away people who are being persecuted. At a news conference Tuesday, he said that refugees were vetted more thoroughly than others entering the United States and that such anti-refugee language plays into the hands of the Islamic State. Mr. Christie dismissed such assurances on refugee vetting, arguing that Mr. Obama was failing to lead on the issue and suggesting that the president was trying to bolster his standing around the world at the expense of Americans’ safety. Striking an ominous tone, Mr. Christie said that those who were clinging to political correctness would be to blame for spilled blood. “I will tell you, if something does happen, where American lives are lost, the American public should be relentlessly unforgiving to those who are responsible for doing the politically correct thing and not listening to the people who knew more than they did,” Mr. Christie said.  