 SHARONVILLE, Ohio — Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, drawing a contrast between the tone of Donald J. Trump’s campaign and his own, chastised Mr. Trump on Saturday for having “created a toxic environment.” Mr. Kasich, asked if he would still support Mr. Trump if were the nominee in light of what has happened at the businessman’s rallies, said what had taken place made it “extremely difficult.” But he also urged people to “take a deep breath,” saying he believed some people had purposely sought out conflict at Mr. Trump’s rally on Friday night in Chicago, which was ultimately canceled. “Donald Trump has created a toxic environment, and a toxic environment has allowed his supporters and those who sometimes seek confrontation to come together in violence,” Mr. Kasich said at a news conference before speaking at a Republican pancake breakfast here. “There is no place for this,” Mr. Kasich said. “There is no place for a national leader to prey on the fears of people who live in our great country.” Mr. Kasich and Mr. Trump are locked in head-to-head competition as Tuesday’s winner-take-all primary in Ohio draws near. Mr. Trump has stepped up his attacks on Mr. Kasich, releasing a negative television commercial and, on Saturday, criticizing Mr. Kasich on Twitter over the issue of trade. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 11, 2016  — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 12, 2016  On Friday night, asked about the violence at Mr. Trump’s rallies, Mr. Kasich sounded much more cautious. He said he could not comment on what has happened at those gatherings. “I’ve never been to one, don’t expect to be going,” he said. Later that evening, after Mr. Trump canceled the rally in Chicago, Mr. Kasich released a statement saying that “the seeds of division that Donald Trump has been sowing this whole campaign finally bore fruit, and it was ugly.” “Just to see Americans slugging themselves at a political rally deeply disturbed me,” Mr. Kasich said on Saturday. “We’re better than that.”