 Here’s how we analyzed in real time the Republican Nevada caucuses. _____ Updated, 7:33 a.m. | LAS VEGAS — In his final rally on Monday before the Nevada caucuses, Donald J. Trump said he wanted to punch a protester, who had been ejected from the event, in the face. On the eve of what could be Mr. Trump’s third consecutive victory among a fractured Republican presidential field, the protester — the third one to interrupt him at the event and who Mr. Trump said had thrown punches at security guards — really drew the candidate’s ire.  As the man was being escorted away, Mr. Trump repeatedly told the crowd that he wished for the “old days,” adding, “You know what they used to do to guys like that when they were in a place like this? They’d be carried out on a stretcher.” “I’d like to punch him in the face, I’ll tell ya,” Mr. Trump added.  Mr. Trump has faced criticism over his response to protesters before. After a Black Lives Matter demonstrator was pushed to the ground at one of his events in November, Mr. Trump said in an interview after the episode that “maybe he should have been roughed up,” before later pulling back from his comments. But on Monday night, he held nothing back, and the crowd of thousands met every one of his lines with whooping cheers. Addressing another protester, a man holding a sign that read, “Veterans to Trump: End Hate Speech Against Muslims,” Mr. Trump repeatedly said, “Get him the hell out,” as the crowd booed the man’s exit. Meanwhile, Mr. Trump denounced Senator Ted Cruz, who earlier in the day fired his communications director for spreading a misleading video with subtitles purporting to show Senator Marco Rubio saying the Bible has few answers. Mr. Rubio, in fact, said the Bible has many answers.  Mr. Trump, who has amplified criticism of Mr. Cruz in the last week using his ability to draw media attention, called him a “liar” and said that it was the reason he lost evangelical voters in South Carolina.  “This guy is sick — there’s something wrong with this guy,” said Mr. Trump, a criticism that could be damaging for Mr. Cruz as the race heads into a string of Southern contests with conservative voters on March 1.  Mr. Trump did not  limit his rough talk to protesters and his rivals on Monday. Referring to the Iranians who took 10 Navy sailors hostage in January, Mr. Trump said the leader of the Iranians was a “rough guy with a rough mouth — I’d like to smack the hell out of him.” He also repeatedly belittled Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, the American soldier who was vilified by some as a deserter after his release by the Taliban in a prisoner swap in 2014. “I think they slapped him around pretty good,” Mr. Trump said, referring to the soldier’s time in captivity. Pointing to his many victories in the presidential race, Mr. Trump said that he was winning the support of evangelicals over his rival Senator Ted Cruz of Texas because Mr. Cruz was a “liar” and evangelical voters “don’t like liars.” “This guy is sick,” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Cruz. “There’s something wrong with this guy.” He also made sure to remind his supporters about the importance of “voting” — he said he hated the word “caucusing” — and told them that they should go into Tuesday night expecting a tie, to help energize them. But he also issued a warning to them: “Don’t make me have a miserable evening.” Mr. Trump, leading in the number of delegates and states won in the nominating contest, also turned his attention to the general election, saying he would be aggressive against Hillary Clinton and repeatedly raising the specter of her email scandal. 