 Mindful of the harsh critique leveled at the Obama administration by congressional Republicans after the deadly Ebola pandemic in 2014, Senate Democrats have urged President Obama to move quickly to avoid accusations of inadequacy in the response to the outbreak of the Zika virus, a mosquito-borne illness that has been linked to severe birth defects and is widespread in Latin America. Anxiety over Ebola was believed to have contributed to Democratic losses in the midterm elections that year. “We are writing to urge you to develop a coordinated interagency response plan to address the spread of the Zika virus both at home and abroad, and protect pregnant women and children,” reads a letter to Mr. Obama, signed by over three dozen Senate Democrats. “There is a critical and urgent need for a robust and coordinated response at all levels of government, and it is necessary to enhance efforts to control outbreaks, counter the spread of the disease and ultimately reduce the potential for outbreaks in the United States.” The senators urged Mr. Obama, who appointed an Ebola czar after being severely criticized for the federal response to that pandemic, to make a budget request for resources to confront the Zika virus and to take steps to prevent transmission in the United States. Notably, the senators suggested the administration should ensure that “federal agencies work with state and local partners to develop a cohesive national strategy for the monitoring, identification, and reporting on domestic Zika infections.” The authorities got hammered for disorganization last time. Democrats also want the administration to “direct H.H.S. and the Department of Homeland Security to develop educational materials to inform travelers regarding the risk of Zika virus exposure,” the letter said, using an abbreviation for the Department of Health and Human Services. “By taking action now,” the lawmakers wrote, “we can make significant progress toward mitigating the impact of Zika virus abroad and reduce the potential for Zika virus outbreaks in the United States. Thank you for your consideration of this request.” The Senate committee overseeing public health policy will hold a hearing on the Zika virus on Feb. 24.
Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.