 Updated, 5:55 p.m. | Less than 48 hours after becoming the presumptive Republican nominee, Donald J. Trump began his Hispanic outreach with … “taco bowls.” Yes, taco bowls. On his social media accounts, including Twitter, Mr. Trump shared on Thursday afternoon a photo of himself eating what he called a taco bowl and offering a thumbs up at his desk in Trump Tower, along with the message: “Happy #CincoDeMayo! The best taco bowls are made in Trump Tower Grill. I love Hispanics!” — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 5, 2016  Hispanics, however, do not yet love Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump has alienated many Hispanic voters with his campaign, which he began with a speech that dubbed some Mexicans as criminals and rapists. His rallies often include rowdy calls to build a large wall at the border with Mexico. Eighty-two percent of Hispanic registered voters view Mr. Trump unfavorably and only 8 percent view him favorably, according to a CBS News poll in April. And Hispanic leaders immediately seized on Mr. Trump’s taco bowl posts as demeaning. “We’re going back to the day when politicians thought all they had to do was eat a taco or wear a sombrero to win our vote,” said Janet Murguía, president of NCLR (also known as the National Council of La Raza), the nation’s largest Latino organization. “Really? This is 2016 and those days are long gone.” Ms. Murguía said the tweet from the presumptive Republican nominee had “hit the Trump trifecta: clueless, offensive and self-promoting.  What we have heard from Trump is what he has said and proposed: building a wall, supporting mass deportation and an end to birthright citizenship,” she said. Ms. Murguía also said that Mr. Trump had missed the mark on his Cinco de Mayo  menu choice. “I don’t know that any self-respecting Latino would even acknowledge that a taco bowl is part of our culture.” “They’re gonna be deported.” —Trump, yesterday https://t.co/HzFWUT1XFl — Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) May 5, 2016  But for those hoping to experience Mr. Trump’s taco magic, they may actually have to head to his Trump Café — not the Trump Tower Grill, as he claims — and as some eagle-eyed reporters have already pointed out. The Tower Grill does not, in fact, offer taco bowls, but the Trump Café has them on Thursday’s Cinco de Mayo menu as a “Taco fiesta!” Julia Preston contributed reporting.