 Donald J. Trump said Monday that he would release his tax returns “at some point, probably,” after the radio host Hugh Hewitt pressed Mr. Trump about when he would make them available, warning that delaying in doing so had damaged Mitt Romney’s campaign in 2012.   “When do we get tax returns, Donald Trump, because Mitt Romney got killed on this four years ago,” Mr. Hewitt said in an interview with Mr. Trump, according to a transcript provided by his aides. “”And you’ve got to get them out there as well.”  “Well, we’ll get them out at some point, probably,”  Mr. Trump said. “I mean, I’m looking at it. I told my people the other day, start looking at it.”  His returns, he added, “are among the largest. I’m audited all the time by government. And I think every single year, I’ve had an audit for years. And you know, other people, friends of mine say they never get audited. I say congratulations. I have audits every year. So it’s, you know, one of those things. But we are working. They’re very complex papers, but we’re working on it.”  Mr. Hewitt pressed on, “Will we get them soon, do you think?”   “I don’t know,” Mr. Trump replied. “I have to ask my accounting people. But we’ll be working on it. Everything is very much, you know, I gave my financials ahead of schedule, much ahead of schedule. I had a long time to give them, and I gave them immediately. And they were very complex, also, and very big, and they turned out to be extremely good, much better, actually, than people thought.”  Mr. Romney, who was a private equity executive before he was elected governor of Massachusetts, was savaged by a “super PAC” supporting President Obama, with campaign ads calling him a heartless corporate raider. Mr. Romney did not release his tax returns until the September before the general election that year, when more people were paying attention. They showed he paid an effective tax rate of less than 15 percent. He had faced months of pressure to release the returns.  On the eve of Tuesday’s Republican caucuses in Nevada, where he is expected to do well, Mr. Trump also told Mr. Hewitt that he does not like the caucus system, which relies heavily on organizing and is more complex than a primary system.  “I just think the caucus system throws wrinkles in it,” said Mr. Trump, who finished second to Senator Ted Cruz of Texas in the Iowa caucuses. “I really don’t believe it’s a good system. You know, I like to have a person walk in, vote and leave, as opposed to walk in, sit around, and who knows what happens. So you know, that’s my preference, but let’s see. I mean, we should be in pretty good shape tomorrow.”  In that regard, Mr. Trump has something in common with Hillary Clinton and her husband, former President Bill Clinton, who have criticized the caucus system in the past for similar reasons. 