 WINTERSET, Iowa — There was nothing “New York values” about it on Tuesday when Donald J. Trump arrived in Iowa, stood between a big leather saddle and a wax statue of a rifle-toting John Wayne and received an endorsement from the actor’s daughter. The event, which was billed a town hall but featured no questions from voters, was part of Mr. Trump’s final push to close perhaps the biggest deal of his career two weeks before Republicans head to the Iowa caucuses. “Talk about bigger than life,” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Wayne at the actor’s museum in Winterset. Mr. Trump recalled having an “amazing meeting” with Mr. Wayne once.  “John Wayne represented strength, he represented power, he represented what the people are looking for,” Mr. Trump said. The visit comes as the billionaire developer is locked in a tight race with Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, with both trying to attract the support of evangelical Christians, Tea Party voters and social conservatives in Iowa. Once friendly, the tone between the two leading Republican candidates has turned angry of late, with harsh words flying in both directions on issues of policy, money and character. “Ted is worried about his temperament,” Mr. Trump said when asked about the recent sniping. “People are talking about his temperament a lot.” The first stop of Mr. Trump’s rare two-day swing through the state allowed the developer to cloak himself in Americana and disavow criticism from Mr. Cruz that he is a closet liberal with New York values. Mr. Trump, known for hosting huge rallies, then jetting home to Manhattan, is staying overnight in Iowa and traveling by motorcade across snow-covered highways. After brief remarks at his first stop, Mr. Trump received no questions from voters but spent some time pointing out his strong poll numbers. He said he hoped to win the state’s Feb. 1 caucuses. “I thought he would say a little more,” said EthelLee Osborne-Tucker, who has attended six of Mr. Trump’s events and plans to caucus for him. “But John Wayne was very dedicated to the ethics of America, and I think identifying with him is a strength.” Chuck Laudner, who is Mr. Trump’s Iowa state director, also addressed the audience and took questions from reporters. He expressed confidence in Mr. Trump’s “ground game” and ability to get new voters out to the caucuses. “We’re reaching out to people who wouldn’t normally be caught dead at caucus events,” Mr. Laudner said. Chiming in with a threat, Mr. Trump said, “If he doesn’t do good, Chuck, you’re fired.”