 Rupert Murdoch — for now, at least — seems to have found his preferred candidate. “Ben Carson polls improve every week. Maybe the one to beat,” the media mogul wrote on Twitter recently. “Irreproachable on background, achievement character, vision.” In another, Mr. Murdoch, whose sprawling media empire includes Fox News and The Wall Street Journal, noted that a recent Iowa poll had Mr. Carson “level” with “Mr. Trump,” adding, “American land of hope versus fear.” — Rupert Murdoch  (@rupertmurdoch) September 5, 2015  Indeed, Mr. Murdoch, the Australian media mogul who often turns to Twitter for expressing his of-the-moment political infatuations (and frustrations), has recently ramped up his social media love for the retired pediatric neurosurgeon, sending out a spate of pro-Carson missives. Their relationship spilled into public awareness Wednesday night, after Mr. Murdoch posted on Twitter that Mr. Carson would be “a real black president who can properly address the racial divide” — prompting immediate outrage and backlash, before quickly apologizing for the message Thursday morning. Those who know Mr. Murdoch say that he admires the calm demeanor and aspirational story of Mr. Carson, who before his presidential bid was a paid Fox News contributor. Mr. Murdoch also loves an outsider, and would like to see a competitive Republican contest, which could be good not only for the Republican Party but also for the Fox News ratings. But they add that his effusive praise of Mr. Carson has as much to do with his continuing frustrations with Donald J. Trump, who has never been a natural favorite of Mr. Murdoch (he often describes him as a “phony” to friends) and whose tensions with Fox News have simmered publicly in recent weeks. After Mr. Trump last month began attacking Fox News and its top talent on Twitter, the top-rated cable news network canceled a scheduled Trump appearance on the “O’Reilly Factor,” prompting the real estate mogul to declare his own boycott of the network. The network scheduled a sit-down editorial meeting involving Roger E. Ailes, the chairman and chief executive of Fox News, other senior editorial executives, and Mr. Trump. But Mr. Trump returned to the Fox News airwaves of his own volition less than a week after his “boycott,” and the planned meeting has been indefinitely postponed. As for Mr. Carson, being a Murdoch favorite has its benefits for a Republican candidate; after all, Fox News has both tremendous reach and influence over likely primary voters. But Mr. Carson, who has appeared on the network 44 times since announcing his campaign for president, still has some ground to make up before he becomes the Republican candidate with the most Fox News appearances. That distinction belongs to former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, a former program host there who has appeared 70 times.