 Donald J. Trump’s contentious proposals on Muslims are reverberating around the world. The latest to denounce them is Malala Yousafzai, the youngest winner of the Nobel Peace Prize. “Well, that’s really tragic that you hear these comments which are full of hatred, full of this ideology of being discriminative towards others,” Ms. Yousafzai, 18, said in an interview with Agence France-Presse on Tuesday. Mr. Trump, the Republican presidential candidate who is leading in most polls, has called for tougher surveillance of mosques and proposed a temporary ban on foreign Muslims entering the United States. The ideas have stirred bipartisan backlash and have been compared to some of the darkest moments in American history, including the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 and the establishment of Japanese internment camps in World War II. Most of Mr. Trump’s rivals for the nomination have distanced themselves from his Muslim policies. Even Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who tends to take the most hard-line, conservative views on most issues, said on Tuesday night that Mr. Trump’s idea was wrong. “There are millions of peaceful Muslims across the world, in countries like India, where there is not the problems we are seeing in nations that are controlled,” Mr. Cruz said. “It’s not a war on a faith; it’s a war on a political and theocratic ideology that seeks to murder us.” Ms. Yousafzai, who is Muslim, brings substantial moral authority to her criticism of Mr. Trump. She became known world-wide in 2009 after writing an anonymous blog about life under the oppressive rule of the Taliban in Pakistan. She escaped in 2012 after being shot in the head and became an inspiring voice of the struggle against Islamist violence. After being awarded the peace prize last year, she has become a global envoy for peace. On Tuesday, Ms. Yousafzai warned that anti-Muslim speech would only incite more terrorism. “The more you speak about Islam and against all Muslims, the more terrorists we create,” she told Britain’s Channel 4. “So it’s important that whatever politicians say, whatever the media say, they should be really, really careful about it. If your intention is to stop terrorism, do not try to blame the whole population of Muslims for it because it cannot stop terrorism.”