 Good Friday morning. The announcement by Representative Kevin McCarthy of California that he would drop out of the race to succeed John A. Boehner as speaker threw the House into tumult and infighting in which, one member said, “We look absolutely crazy.” But as Congress tries to make sense from the mess, the Republican candidates must also determine whether they should embrace or distance themselves from the turmoil. Mr. McCarthy’s sudden departure has left the presidential campaigns pondering the latest chaos and its implications. Mr. Boehner is hoping to push Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the House budget chairman and a respected figure in the Republican establishment who has said he would not run, to replace him. Should Mr. Boehner succeed, it could help bring a sense of stability to a deeply uncertain situation, though it’s unclear if Mr. Ryan would have more success quelling concerns of conservatives than Mr. McCarthy did. But the speaker job, once a coveted leadership post, is one that few people seem to want at an unruly moment in Congress. A week ago, Mr. McCarthy suggested the work of the special committee investigating the 2012 terrorist attacks in Benghazi, Libya, had helped bring down Hillary Rodham Clinton’s poll numbers. Democrats seized on the remarks, which deeply troubled Republicans. And Mr. McCarthy was seen as insufficiently conservative by the Freedom Caucus. For the time being, the situation will help freeze the news coverage of the Republican presidential race for a few days, and being seen as too connected to Washington is unhelpful to the candidates at such an anti-establishment moment, even for governors who were once seen as the saviors of their party for 2016. Most of the outsider candidates, such as Donald J. Trump, spoke approvingly of Mr. McCarthy’s departure from the race. Jeb Bush, despite never serving in Washington, has been tagged by virtue of his family and his deep donor support as inextricably linked to the establishment. The candidate he is most closely eyeing right now, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, has been lying low for much of the summer of Trump. He is trying to stay above Mr. Trump’s increasing criticisms, and he has been gaining a sense of momentum. But Mr. Rubio, who won the 2010 primary in his state as a Tea Party candidate, has been in Washington for almost five years. Navigating the current dysfunction could be a challenge. What We’re Watching Today –  With only a few days until the first Democratic debate, all eyes continue to shift to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. for any signs or projections of whether he will enter the race. Toward that end, even no news seems like some news as his schedule on Friday lists only a meeting “with senior advisers.” – Mr. Rubio, who is growing in popularity even as his fund-raising shows signs of slowing, will continue a trip in Las Vegas with several events, including a Christian businessmen’s networking event, happy hour at Havana Grill and a ribbon-cutting at a business opening. – Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont will return to Arizona, where in July he drew over 11,000 people for an event in Tucson. Christie Seeks Eminent Domain to Build Protective Dunes Gov. Chris Christie often says that he decides how to lead New Jersey with no regard for political implications, as evidenced by his frequent battles with the teachers’ union. And he seems to be doing it again. On Wednesday, Mr. Christie filed an eminent domain action against the city of Margate to construct dunes to protect against storm surges and hurricane flooding. The move comes after months of back-and-forth over the disputed land, which reached a head about a week ago as Mr. Christie criticized the town in a news conference on Hurricane Joaquin preparations. “To towns like Margate, you know, you are amongst the most selfish people in the state of New Jersey,” Mr. Christie said. However, the filing may have an adverse impact on Mr. Christie’s presidential aspirations. Many Republicans would be opposed to any use of eminent domain, seeing it as government overreach. But Mr. Christie at least is not alone in the Republican field; Mr. Trump described eminent domain as “wonderful” in an interview with Fox News. — Nick Corasaniti Obama to Meet With Families of Oregon Shooting Victims Last week, President Obama said that thoughts and prayers were not enough in the wake of the massacre at Umpqua Community College and that political change was needed. But on Friday, Mr. Obama will offer only thoughts and prayers when he flies to Roseburg, Ore., where gun rights are popular and where many are deeply opposed to his politics. The White House has said that the president would confine his visit to a private meeting with the families of victims. No speech. No politics. Just shared grief. The change reflects the tension always present in the role of the president, who is both the nation’s chief official mourner and its most powerful politician. With each mass shooting he has addressed, the time between Mr. Obama’s expressions of grief and his political response has seemed to narrow. On Jan. 12, 2011, Mr. Obama spoke about the shooting of Representative Gabrielle Giffords, Democrat of Arizona, and 17 others four days earlier and said that it was time “for us to pause for a moment and make sure that we’re talking with each other in a way that heals, not in a way that wounds.” Two days after a gunman killed 12 people in a Colorado movie theater on July 20, 2012, Mr. Obama said his “main task was to serve as a representative of the entire country and let them know that we are thinking about them at this moment.” Two days after the killing in December 2012 of 20 children and six adults at a school in Newtown, Conn., Mr. Obama said, “These tragedies must end, and to end them, we must change.” Just hours after the shooting in Roseburg, Mr. Obama was talking politics in unusually stark and terms. “This is a political choice that we make to allow this to happen every few months in America,” he said. That message was not well received by much of the population of Roseburg. So Mr. Obama will not give a speech or allow reporters to witness his meetings with families. But he has promised more gun speeches in the future. “Each time this happens, I am going to say that we can actually do something about it, but we’re going to have to change our laws,” he said last week. — Gardiner Harris Our Favorites from The Times What We’re Reading Elsewhere — Ezra Klein of Vox writes that Mrs. Clinton’s statements opposing the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal, whose early form she is on record as supporting, are “unnerving” for “someone trying to understand Clinton’s likely governing philosophy,” because they recall, he argues, another change of position in 2008 that left her “looking like the kind of candidate who puts polls in front of policy.” — Mr. Carson, who has faced criticism for comments he made after the Oregon shooting that he would confront a gunman and would not “just let him” shoot, recounted a story in an interview on Sirius radio of being held up by gunpoint at a Popeye’s restaurant. “Guy comes in, puts the gun to my ribs, and I just said, ‘I believe that you want the guy behind the counter,’ ” Mr. Carson said. In a later interview, he said there was no contradiction between the comments because “you’ve got to be able to distinguish between somebody who’s trying to rob a joint and somebody who is trying to kill you.” —  In an op-ed article for Bloomberg View, Mrs. Clinton laid out a plan to prevent financial crises, namely by calling for “more accountability, tougher rules and stronger enforcement” of the banking industry.