 SALEM, N.H. — One of the most respected surveys of New Hampshire voters confirmed on Thursday that Senator Marco Rubio of Florida has quickly become the candidate to beat in the state’s primary on Tuesday, a sudden rise that has reordered the Republican primary race and unnerved his rivals. The poll  by the University of New Hampshire for CNN and WMUR showed that Mr. Rubio had received a seven-point bounce here after his unexpectedly strong third-place showing in the Iowa caucuses on Monday, placing him in second place with 18 percent support.  Donald J. Trump remained in first at 29 percent, unchanged since the university’s last survey in late January.  But, most significant for Mr. Rubio, he remained ahead of the candidates who pose the biggest competition for him in New Hampshire. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, Gov. John Kasich of Ohio and Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida, were bunched together at 13 percent, 12 percent and 10 percent, respectively. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, who has taunted Mr. Rubio for the last two days by calling him the “boy in the bubble” for taking fewer questions from voters and reporters than many of his rivals, saw his support all but collapse. He now stands at 4 percent, down from 9 percent in the last survey.  Some of the voter interviews were conducted before the Iowa caucuses. For them, the poll’s margin of error was plus or minus 5.2 percentage points; for interviews done after the caucuses, it was 6.8 percentage points. That means the results may not portray as big an increase or a decrease for any candidate. On the campaign trail on Thursday, Mr. Rubio was visibly upbeat. Speaking to around 700 voters in Salem, N.H., who had packed a school cafeteria and spilled into the gym, the Florida senator brought his wife, two sons and two daughters up on stage with him and joked as how being from Miami they were excited for a coming snowstorm, even if people in New Hampshire were not.  Then he made a self-effacing pander: If the people of New Hampshire were against snow, “I am against snow,” he said, drawing laughs from the audience. He urged them to get behind his campaign for the sake of Republican unity, saying that Democrats wanted the G.O.P. to be at war with itself heading into the general election. “Now, we’re going to have a very spirited primary. Believe me, I know,” he said, referring to attacks from Mr. Bush and Mr. Christie. “They want us to remain divided, right up to November.”