 If it is a congressional recess, it must be time for another Democratic push in the states of vulnerable Republican senators refusing to take up the Supreme Court nomination of Judge Merrick B. Garland. With senators back home, the group Americans United for Change is conducting what it calls its 9-9-9 Tour, taking mobile billboards to nine states over nine days to push for confirmation of a ninth justice to what is now an eight-member court after the death of Justice Antonin Scalia in February. “The longer the Supreme Court is left a justice short, the more dysfunction and uncertainty it invites for businesses and citizens across the country,” said Brad Woodhouse, president of the group. The advocacy group is moving beyond the six swing-state Republican senators who have received most of the attention from Democrats: Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire, Mark S. Kirk of Illinois, Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, Rob Portman of Ohio, Patrick J. Toomey of Pennsylvania, and Charles E. Grassley of Iowa. This recess, critics of the Republicans are adding Senators John McCain of Arizona, Roy Blunt of Missouri and Richard M. Burr of North Carolina to the target list, and they will also get the billboard treatment. The expanded list not only makes it possible for the Democrats to use their catchy numerical title; it also shows they believe the Supreme Court fight is putting more Republican senators in potential jeopardy in November, and they are trying to take advantage of it. But what the weekslong campaign has not done so far is shown much progress in persuading Senate Republicans to hold hearings and a vote on the nomination. Despite many meetings between Republicans and Judge Garland, Republicans have refused to budge on scheduling a hearing, and the nomination seems firmly stalled. As a result, the fight seems to be developing into more of a campaign issue, and the regular Democratic assaults against Republicans over congressional breaks will no doubt continue.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.