 Gov. John Kasich of Ohio is going on the air in New York with a commercial that amounts to a preview of his message for a summer convention battle, arguing that he is the only Republican who can defeat Hillary Clinton in November if she is the Democratic nominee. At the same time, Mr. Kasich’s team is calling on Republicans eager to stop Donald J. Trump to supplement the campaign’s efforts with their own advertising boosting Mr. Kasich ahead of New York’s presidential primary on April 19. The new commercial from the Kasich campaign asserts that Mr. Kasich would win a contested convention, and it casts aside Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who has a large delegate advantage on Mr. Kasich.  “Don’t be fooled,” the narrator says. “Ted Cruz can’t win the nomination outright, and he can’t defeat Hillary Clinton either. John Kasich will win the convention, and he’ll defeat Hillary Clinton in the fall.” Mr. Kasich tends to poll slightly ahead of Mrs. Clinton in national poll match ups; Mr. Cruz does not have a clear advantage against her. The new commercial has a similar approach to an ad from the conservative Club for Growth that helped Mr. Cruz and hurt Mr. Kasich in Wisconsin — only with a focus on stopping Mrs. Clinton in this case, rather than stopping Mr. Trump. (“Only Ted Cruz can beat Donald Trump,” the Club for Growth ad said. “John Kasich can’t do it.”)  The new commercial from the Kasich campaign will air both upstate and downstate. At the beginning of last month, Mr. Kasich’s campaign had only a little over $1 million on hand; the campaign said it would spend a significant amount of money on the new commercial, although it declined to say how much. Earlier Thursday, the campaign released ads that went after Mr. Cruz over his comments about “New York values.”  The Kasich campaign is also hoping that the “Never Trump” movement will help its cause in New York. A spokesman for Mr. Kasich, Mike Schrimpf, said that if those hoping to stop Mr. Trump are truly serious about their mission, the anti-Trump movement will “make the same effort for John Kasich in New York as it did for Ted Cruz in Wisconsin.” “The fact is while Ted Cruz disparages New York values, John Kasich is Donald Trump’s main competition in the state,” Mr. Schrimpf said.