 The race between Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Hillary Clinton ramped up Thursday with a top Clinton ally criticizing a new Sanders ad as focused too much on white Americans. Mr. Sanders released a 60-second commercial in Iowa on Thursday that features the Simon and Garfunkel song “America” and that seeks to remind his supporters how far he has come since declaring his candidacy. The ad is intended to motivate people to caucus for him on Feb. 1. No words are spoken, apart from the song’s lyrics, and Mr. Sanders is seen greeting voters on the campaign trail, first in small groups, then in gymnasiums and finally at huge rallies. David Brock, a longtime Clinton supporter who founded the “super PAC” backing her, told The Associated Press on Thursday that the advertising presented a “bizarre” image of America focused on white voters. Mr. Brock also said the ad was a “significant slight to the Democratic base,” according to the news agency. “From this ad it seems black lives don’t matter much to Bernie Sanders,” Mr. Brock told The Associated Press. Mrs. Clinton has historically had close ties with black voters, and several polls show her with significant leads on Mr. Sanders among the black electorate. Mr. Brock has emerged in this campaign as one of Mrs. Clinton’s most acerbic allies, challenging both her critics and unflattering news stories about her, and increasingly turning his fire on Mr. Sanders.  On Thursday, Michael Briggs, a spokesman for Mr. Sanders, dismissed Mr. Brock, who during Bill Clinton’s administration was a writer for conservative publications, as “a mud-slinging, right-wing extremist.” And during Clarence Thomas’s confirmation hearing to the Supreme Court, Mr. Briggs added, Mr. Brock “tried to destroy” Anita Hill, a black law professor who had accused Mr. Thomas of sexual harassment. Mr. Brock has acknowledged lying to hurt Ms. Hill’s case. “Bernie Sanders, as everyone knows, has one of the strongest civil rights records in Congress,” Mr. Briggs said in the statement. “He doesn’t need lectures on civil rights and racial issues from David Brock.” The Clinton campaign did not immediately respond on Thursday night to requests for comment. Mr. Briggs also pointedly criticized Mrs. Clinton. “It’s bad enough that Hillary Clinton is raising millions in special-interest money in her super PACS,” he said. “It is worse that she would hire a mudslinger like David Brock. She should be ashamed of her association with Brock.” For his part, Mr. Sanders stuck to his usual themes as he began a two day swing through New Hampshire on Thursday, focusing on income inequality, campaign finance reform and his calls for raising the minimum wage.