 MANCHESTER, NH — The Sanders campaign seems to almost feel bad for Hillary Clinton. “I think they are frustrated by where the campaign is,” Tad Devine, a senior adviser to Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, said about the Clinton campaign. “They are concerned that they are behind here,” but also “beyond New Hampshire, into Nevada and the March 1st states.” With reports of deep dissatisfaction and a potential shake-up in the Clinton campaign, and former President Bill Clinton unleashing a harsh attack on Mr. Sanders’s authenticity, the Sanders campaign is determined not to be knocked off what it considers a winning message about waging a political revolution against a rigged economy. In an interview on the sidelines of a Sanders rally in New Hampshire, where Mr. Sanders told a theater packed with supporters and national and international news media that “I think we are going to be just fine tomorrow,” Mr. Devine did not seem worried about the attacks by Mrs. Clinton’s campaign. “The polls look good to me. We have a lead that is enough to win,” he said. “I’ll be thrilled if we walk out with more votes than her. I mean, she just won by two-and-a-half-delegates in Iowa and were like ‘it’s one of the great victories of all time.’” Mr. Devine said he hoped his candidate, who looked a little drained on stage, would “get some rest” on Tuesday, but said the senator had great energy and was keeping up his sense of humor. Upon arriving in New York to appear on “Saturday Night Live” this weekend, Mr. Sanders, he said, joked “what’s my motivation” to Lorne Michaels, the show’s producer. The motivation in New Hampshire is clearly to win as large a victory as possible. And despite some expectations management, Mr. Devine betrayed some high confidence when he said that a convincing showing here, especially one that drew on independents and young people, would demonstrate to the Democratic establishment that it was Mr. Sanders who was able to bring new voters into the process.  It would be very hard, he said, for the Clinton campaign to knock Mr. Sanders off of a message that was drawing such enthusiastic support. That said, he acknowledged that there was a threshold of negativity from the Clinton campaign that would force the Sanders campaign to respond.  “I bet there is,” he said. “But we are going to try and avoid making that happen.” For now, anyway. Already looking beyond the primary on Tuesday, Mr. Devine suggested that a more emboldened Sanders campaign was just over the New Hampshire horizon. “If you’re going to keep this up Wednesday,” he said of the intensifying Clinton assault, “that’s a different world.”