 Ben Carson refused to be baited by Donald J. Trump’s personal attacks against his background and temperament on Friday, saying that he would not participate in the “politics of personal destruction.” “I expect that kind of thing,” Mr. Carson, speaking in South Carolina, said of Mr. Trump’s latest tirade against him. “I don’t have to get into it.” The response from Mr. Carson, a Republican presidential candidate who is leading in many polls, followed a week of barbs from Mr. Trump, who has mocked him saying he stabbed his friend and hit his mother with a hammer as a child. Mr. Trump, who has been trying to fend off Mr. Carson’s rise, has asserted that Mr. Carson is “pathological” and compared him to a child molester who could never be cured or forgiven for his actions. On Friday, Mr. Carson suggested that Mr. Trump’s advisers educate him on the meaning of the word pathological. “It’s not the kind of dialogue that I would ever engage in,” Mr. Carson said, expressing thanks that his religion had helped him change his violent ways. “I’m hopeful that maybe his advisers will help him to understand the word pathological and recognize that that does not denote incurable.” Mr. Trump made clear on Friday that his attacks on Mr. Carson were not a gaffe, releasing a video of a younger Mr. Carson recounting the story of trying to stab someone with a camping knife. The footage was spliced with a clip of a neighbor of Mr. Carson’s saying that the story sounded implausible.  “Violent criminal? Or pathological liar?” the advertisement asks. “We don’t need either as president.” Mr. Trump may have overreached in his remarks on Thursday night, as he accused Iowans of being dumb for believing Mr. Carson’s biography. But the retired neurosurgeon said on Friday that voters in Iowa will have to decide for themselves. “It’s not really up to me, it’s up to the people,” Mr. Carson said. “They will have to listen and make a decision about whether they want to listen to the usual politics of personal destruction, or if they want something else.”