 MINNEAPOLIS — On the eve of voting in 11 Democratic contests, Bernie Sanders told hundreds of supporters here on Monday that he was counting on them to defeat Hillary Clinton and start a political revolution. Mr. Sanders, eager to bounce back from back-to-back losses in Nevada and South Carolina, cast the primaries and caucuses on Tuesday as a chance to “make history” and show that the coalition of young and working-class people he hopes to bring together can help him win the Democratic presidential nomination. The senator also criticized Mrs. Clinton on several fronts: her praise of former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, her ties to Wall Street and her stances on trade policies. “The truth is, tomorrow is important and key,” Mr. Sanders said, adding, as usual, that a high voter turnout would benefit him. “We can win, no question, here in Minnesota — if we have the turnout.” Mr. Sanders also said it was important that voters understood the differences between him and Mrs. Clinton. He stressed that he did not have a “super PAC” as she does and that Mrs. Clinton supported several trade policies that he believes led to millions of people losing their jobs. He also chastised her admiration for Mr. Kissinger. “She looked to Henry Kissinger as one of her mentors,” Mr. Sanders said, as the crowd booed. “I will not look to Henry Kissinger for guidance. In fact, Henry Kissinger was one of the most destructive secretaries of state in the modern history of this country.” Mr. Sanders, delivering a stump speech for about 40 minutes, also said that if elected he would change campaign finance laws, devote resources to fighting climate change and work on combating institutional racism. He added that he would push back against laws that in his view suppress voter rights. And he pledged to increase wages and give people access to tuition-free public colleges and universities. The senator also talked about providing more resources to American Indians. “We owe Native Americans so, so much,” Mr. Sanders said. “We cannot continue current policies which are so devastating to the Native-American community. That will change under a Sanders administration.” His address came after his campaign announced that the senator had raised $36 million  from 1.2 million individual donors in February. The campaign added that they hoped to raise $40 million by the end of Monday — meaning that they are aiming to bring in $4 million in one day. Mr. Sanders also planned to hold a rally in Milton, Mass., on Monday night, the same state where Hillary Clinton campaigned on Monday.