 Senator Bernie Sanders has repeatedly denounced campaigns that he says are built around their candidates attending fund-raisers. He has insisted he will not “go out hustling money from the wealthiest people in the country,” and declared at the first Democratic debate that he is “not raising money from millionaires and billionaires.”  Yet Mr. Sanders was cheered at a fancy campaign fund-raiser at the Hollywood home of Syd Leibovitch, a high-end real estate agent, and his wife, Linda, on Wednesday night.  Tickets for the event sold for a minimum of $250. Those who spent the maximum, $2,700, or who raised $10,000, were invited to a “pre-event reception,” according to the invitation.  The 14 co-hosts included Cindy Asner, the former wife of the actor Ed Asner, the actress Mimi Kennedy, and Benjamin W. Decker, whose website notes that he was once called the “legendary Hollywood P.R. maven” by Forbes magazine, and used to produce “celebrity-driven red-carpet movie premieres.”  Mr. Sanders has repeatedly talked on the campaign trail about how small-dollar donations are driving his campaign war chest — he raised $26 million in the third fund-raising quarter, primarily in small increments.  But the fund-raiser at the Leibovitch home was the type of event that most politicians typically hold. According to a pool report, guests dressed in blazers, jeans and cocktail dresses were treated to valet parking, and aides estimated about $150,000 would be raised from roughly 300 people there. It was the ninth such event of his campaign, his aides said, according to the pool report.  As Mr. Sanders began speaking to the guests, he joked that the Leibovitch house was a “proletariat” home, and told them, “The truth is there are many people in this country who have money but also believe in social justice.”  The nighttime event was part of a busy Wednesday for Mr. Sanders in California, including the taping of a fun appearance on the “Ellen DeGeneres Show” and another less-fancy fund-raiser at the Avalon Hollywood nightclub. Michael Briggs, a spokesman for Mr. Sanders, insisted the Leibovitch event was “not particularly high-dollar,” and said there was no contradiction between such a fund-raiser and the candidate’s campaign-finance oratory about not “sitting around in small rooms talking to very wealthy people.”  “He still does not have a ‘super PAC,'” Mr. Briggs said, adding that he does not want one and that the words “‘lion’s share’ doesn’t begin to say how much his campaign relies on small contributions.” 