 Congress returns this week after a Memorial Day break, with lawmakers needing to get busy on a pileup of legislation in a year shortened by the elections and by national political conventions in July. Republicans are under increasing pressure to come up with a package to fund efforts to combat the spread of the Zika virus and to speed work on a vaccine now that warm weather — and mosquito season — is here. House Republicans have resisted finding new money for the public health emergency despite a request from the Obama administration for $1.9 billion. The House has approved shifting $622 million and the Senate has allocated $1.1 billion. Negotiations have begun to try to find a compromise and the White House is prepared to point the finger squarely at congressional Republicans if the disease spreads and no federal prevention program has been approved. Republicans in tough Senate races also want a quick resolution to negotiations on House and Senate bills to combat the nationwide heroin epidemic. Republican incumbents in swing states — particularly Rob Portman in Ohio and Kelly Ayotte in New Hampshire — have built their re-election messages around the legislation and are eager to declare victory. Lawmakers hope to send a bill to President Obama before July 4. In the House, Republicans are hoping to restart the appropriations process after the embarrassing defeat of a spending bill right before they left town. Speaker Paul D. Ryan and his team are trying to figure out if they need to put new limits on proposed amendments to the spending bills to reduce the chances of more measures going down in flames. Mr. Ryan and his team also intend to begin rolling out the elements of their new policy agenda, beginning on Tuesday with an antipoverty plan. They hope that the policy prescriptions present a more positive message than Donald J. Trump’s. After a delay caused by Democrats, the Senate will begin debating the annual Pentagon policy bill, which is always a magnet for political skirmishing. Among the coming fights: whether young women should be required to register with the Selective Service System.