 The New York Observer, which is owned by Donald J. Trump’s son-in-law, said Monday that its editorial staff would no longer aid or advise Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign, after a report that the paper’s editor had helped write a major foreign policy speech Mr. Trump gave two weeks ago. The Observer’s editor, Ken Kurson, collaborated with the paper’s owner, Jared Kushner, who is married to Mr. Trump’s daughter Ivanka, on a speech that Mr. Trump delivered to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee in Washington on March 21. New York magazine reported Mr. Kurson’s role on Sunday. The Observer’s own report on the speech mentioned Mr. Kushner’s relationship to Mr. Trump but did not refer to Mr. Kurson’s involvement in drafting the speech. “Going forward, there will be no input whatsoever on the campaign from Mr. Kurson or anyone on the editorial side of the Observer,” Jillian Jorgensen, the Observer’s political editor, said in a statement first reported by The Huffington Post. “In the interest of covering the race as fairly as possible despite the unavoidable conflict of interest created by our ownership – a conflict we disclose on each story about Mr. Trump – and in response to concerns raised by staffers at the paper, Observer writers will now be able to cover Mr. Trump in the same way they cover every other candidate in the presidential race,” Ms. Jorgensen said. Mr. Kurson told The Huffington Post he had simply “looked at a draft” and said he saw nothing wrong with this. Mr. Kurson’s ties to Mr. Trump predate his job at the Observer. In 2011, when Mr. Kurson was executive vice president of the political consulting firm Jamestown Associates, he and a colleague, Larry Weitzner, wrote drafts of potential ads for Mr. Trump, who was then flirting with a presidential campaign in 2012. At the time, Jason Miller, another Jamestown employee, was being considered for Mr. Trump’s campaign manager; Mr. Trump’s likely New Hampshire state director would have been Corey Lewandowski, who is now Mr. Trump’s campaign manager. Mr. Miller, who is still at Jamestown Associates, is advising Senator Ted Cruz’s campaign.