 Senator Ted Cruz, facing persistent elbows from Donald J. Trump over his Canadian birth, delivered his most forceful response yet on Tuesday, knocking Mr. Trump’s “New York values,” questioning his knowledge of foreign affairs and suggesting that the billionaire developer was taking his cues from Democrats. It was a stark reversal for Mr. Cruz, who has consistently declined to engage with Mr. Trump while scolding reporters who ask about him for attempting to drive a wedge between Republicans. On Tuesday, with the birthplace questions festering, Mr. Cruz did not hesitate to shift course — even as he insisted, somewhat incongruously, that he would not reciprocate with attacks on Mr. Trump. Speaking to reporters in New Hampshire, Mr. Cruz noted that Mr. Trump had relied upon the analysis of Laurence H. Tribe, a Harvard law professor who has said that Mr. Cruz’s argument for being eligible to run for president is far from settled law. “It is more than a little strange to see Donald relying on, as authoritative, a liberal, left-wing judicial-activist Harvard law professor who is a huge Hillary supporter,” Mr. Cruz said of Mr. Tribe, who was once his professor at Harvard. “It starts to make you think, ‘Gosh, why are Hillary’s strongest supporters backing Donald Trump?’” Mr. Cruz went on to say that in recent elections, Democrats had succeeded in getting “the nominee they wanted to run against in the general election.” “It seems the Hillary folks are very eager to support Donald Trump,” he continued, “and the attacks that are being tossed my direction.” Later, in a radio interview on The Howie Carr Show, Mr. Cruz was asked about Mr. Trump’s campaign playing “Born in the U.S.A.” by Bruce Springsteen at a recent event. “Well, look, he may shift in his new rallies to playing ‘New York, New York’ because you know, Donald comes from New York and he embodies New York values,” Mr. Cruz said. “The Donald,” he added, “seems to be a little bit rattled.” Noting Hillary Clinton’s recent comments about Mr. Trump’s shifting allegiances through the years, Mr. Cruz said that Mrs. Clinton “would know well how to identify Democrats.” And in another radio interview, with the conservative host Hugh Hewitt, Mr. Cruz took direct aim at Mr. Trump’s knowledge of foreign affairs. He alluded to Mr. Trump’s seeming unfamiliarity in the last debate with the nuclear triad — the country’s three ways of firing nuclear weapons — and questioned his sources for foreign policy information. “Does a potential commander-in-chief know what the nuclear triad is — much less is he or she prepared and able to strengthen it and keep this country safe?” Mr. Cruz asked on Mr. Hewitt’s show. He added that a commander-in-chief must understand how to defeat our enemies “not just based on what’s said on Sunday shows on TV, but actually understanding the nature of the threat and what is required to defeat it.” After largely sparing Mr. Cruz from attacks for months, Mr. Trump has in recent days sought to introduce doubts about his eligibility to run for president. Mr. Cruz has said the matter is not a concern, citing the examples of past presidential candidates like George Romney who were born outside the United States. “Under longstanding federal law, the child of a U.S. citizen born abroad is a natural-born citizen,” Mr. Cruz said last week before the final stop of a six-day bus tour in Iowa. But Mr. Trump has seized on the issue, wondering aloud whether Democrats would tie Mr. Cruz’s presidential bid up in litigation. “Such a serious problem for Ted &amp; the GOP,” Mr. Trump said Tuesday on Twitter. “Great doubt, Dems will sue! Let’s all work together to solve this problem.” He linked to a Boston Globe column on the subject by Mr. Tribe. Mr. Trump, in interviews this week, suggested that Mr. Cruz’s birthplace could invite legal challenges. “It’s a problem for him, and it’s a problem obviously for the Republicans,” Mr. Trump said on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe.” Critics of Mr. Cruz have questioned his eligibility to be president for some time. Senator John McCain, who was born in the Panama Canal Zone, faced similar questions when he ran for president in 2008. Mr. Cruz was born in 1970 in Calgary, Alberta, to an American-born mother and a Cuban-born father. His parents were in Canada working in the oil business.  Mr. Cruz was an American citizen at birth because of his mother’s citizenship. The Constitution, in Article II, requires the president to be a “natural born citizen.” But the Constitution does not define that term, which is why Mr. Cruz, and other presidential candidates before him, have faced questions about their eligibility. The general view among legal scholars is that “anyone who acquires citizenship at birth is natural born for purposes of Article II,” as Sarah Helene Duggin, a law professor at Catholic University, wrote in 2013. Paul D. Clement, who served as solicitor general in the administration of President George W. Bush, and Neal K. Katyal, who served as acting solicitor general in the Obama administration, took up the subject in the Harvard Law Review last year. To understand the term “natural born citizen” as written by the framers of the Constitution, they pointed to British common law and legislative action by the First Congress.  “Both confirm that the original meaning of the phrase ‘natural born Citizen’ includes persons born abroad who are citizens from birth based on the citizenship of a parent,” they wrote.  In Mr. Cruz’s case, they concluded that “despite the happenstance of a birth across the border, there is no question that Senator Cruz has been a citizen from birth and is thus a ‘natural born Citizen’ within the meaning of the Constitution.” — Thomas Kaplan Mr. Trump has also taken shots at Mr. Cruz on other fronts. He questioned Mr. Cruz’s opposition to subsidies supported by the ethanol industry, a potential vulnerability in Iowa. And he has referred ominously to Mr. Cruz’s faith, saying that “not a lot of evangelicals come out of Cuba.” Responding to the second claim on Tuesday, Mr. Cruz repeated an invitation for Mr. Trump to attend church with him. “Any time someone is attacking your faith, that starts to suggest they’re getting really nervous,” Mr. Cruz said. On Tuesday evening, at an event in Londonderry, N.H., Mr. Cruz was more playful, delivering a faux State of the Union speech (essentially his stump speech spoken in the future tense, as if read in 2018). He joked that he was “particularly pleased that my good friend Donald Trump will be building a hotel” in what was once the Internal Revenue Service building. Mr. Cruz has called for the agency to be abolished. “I’m also pleased to tell you that Donald last week finished building the wall,” Mr. Cruz said, referencing a wall along the southern border in a 2018 Cruz administration. An audience member asked who paid for it. Mr. Cruz had a quip ready. “Donald did,” he said. And when the event ended, the Cruz campaign treated supporters to a Springsteen song of its own choosing: “Born to Run.”