 Hillary Rodham Clinton on Monday will unveil the details of what she has called a “down payment on the future,” a $250 billion federal investment in infrastructure over five years paid for by overhauling the business tax code. The introduction will be the start of a monthlong focus on Mrs. Clinton’s “jobs agenda,” the most substantial — and expensive — policy rollout of her campaign to date. On Sunday, Mrs. Clinton introduced the “Hard Hats for Hillary” infrastructure portion of her jobs plan at a rally at Faneuil Hall in Boston, alongside Mayor Martin J. Walsh, who endorsed her candidacy. “Investing in infrastructure makes our economy more productive and competitive across the board,” she said. But improving the nation’s bridges, railroads and tunnels while providing middle-class jobs is not the only part of Mrs. Clinton’s plan. She intends to devote the critical month of December to a series of policy proposals meant to create jobs. Republicans have criticized Mrs. Clinton for proposing expensive government programs without clear details about how she would pay for them. On Sunday, a Republican National Committee spokesman, Michael Short, said, “it’s clear she wants to treat Americans’ tax dollars like every day is Black Friday with no plan to pay the bill.” Mrs. Clinton’s plan would overhaul the business tax code to pay for the infrastructure investment, according to her campaign. She has repeatedly told voters that she would not raise taxes on the middle class. “I’m the only Democratic candidate in this race who will pledge to raise your incomes, not your taxes,” Mrs. Clinton said in Boston, a veiled attack at Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont’s health care plan. The start of Mrs. Clinton’s jobs agenda (and the “Hard Hats for Hillary” infrastructure proposals) comes at the beginning of a peripatetic week for the Democratic candidate. After events in Boston and New Hampshire on Sunday, Mrs. Clinton will attend events in Washington on Monday, followed by appearances this week in Alabama, Florida, New Hampshire and Iowa.