 Donald J. Trump found himself on the defensive on Sunday over his claims that he had opposed the intervention in Libya and the war in Iraq. Mr. Trump has described himself in the presidential campaign as an ardent detractor of both interventions, but his critics cite evidence to the contrary. In an interview on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” the host, John Dickerson, pointed out that Mr. Trump had supported military intervention in Libya and the ouster of its leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, despite the fact he now criticizes Hillary Clinton on both points. “When you say supported it, I supported Libya?” Mr. Trump said. “Yes, you supported the intervention in Libya,” Mr. Dickerson replied. “I did? Where do you see that?” Mr. Trump asked. Mr. Dickerson played a video clip from 2011 of Mr. Trump saying: “Now, we should go in. We should stop this guy, which would be very easy and very quick. We could do it surgically, stop him from doing it and save these lives.” Mr. Trump insisted that the comments had not constituted support. “I was for doing something,” he said, “but I wasn’t for what you have right now.” The candidate also told Jake Tapper, the host of CNN’s “State of the Union,” that there was ample evidence that he had been against the Iraq war. But in an interview with the radio host Howard Stern before the invasion of 2003, the real estate developer expressed support for it. Asked in the 2002 interview whether he supported invading Iraq, Mr. Trump replied: “Yeah, I guess so. I wish the first time it was done correctly.” Mr. Trump also acknowledged that he had made “a lot of money with Qaddafi,” telling “Face the Nation” viewers that when the Libyan dictator was preparing to attend a United Nations summit meeting in 2009, he was looking for a property large enough to accommodate the Bedouin-style tent he planned to use. The Libyan leader rented a Westchester property that belonged to Mr. Trump. “He had to make a deal with me because he needed a place to stay, and he paid me a fortune, never got to stay there,” Mr. Trump said of Colonel Qaddafi. “And it became sort of a big joke. But the fact is that Libya was a disaster, from the standpoint of the way it was handled.”