 LAS VEGAS — Senator Harry Reid of Nevada has had discussions with the head of the state’s most powerful union to make sure tens of thousands of casino workers can easily participate in the Democratic caucuses here on Saturday. In an interview on Thursday, Mr. Reid said he had spoken to D. Taylor, the president of the parent union of the Culinary Workers Union, which has 57,000 members, more than half of which are Latino. The union wields enormous power in the state and declined to endorse a presidential candidate this year. “He’s been extremely cooperative,” Mr. Reid said. “Probably 100 organizers will be at the caucus sites and in hotels to make sure people know what they’re doing.” Hillary Clinton’s supporters, in particular, have expressed concern that the caucus format could be difficult for low-wage workers who have to leave their jobs and find child care to publicly support a candidate. Although Mrs. Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders have courted the Culinary Workers, the union decided not to endorse anyone because it is entering contract negotiations, leaving both candidates to fight for the support of its members who are the cocktail waitress, bartenders, and card dealers who make Las Vegas run. Mrs. Clinton made a visit to the employee quarters of Caesars Palace hotel and casino early Thursday and asked for the workers’ support. “My goodness,” she said greeting cooks, busboys and housekeepers. “We’re staying here, and I thought I’d come to see who’s working.” Mrs. Clinton asked about one housekeeper’s hours. She told Mrs. Clinton she worked the 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. shift. “So it’s just towels and linens every day?” Mrs. Clinton said. “I flew in from Chicago so before I went to my room, I said, ‘Well, who is still working?’” The answer? “A lot of people,” Mrs. Clinton said. Caucuses on Saturday will be held in six of the major Las Vegas casinos, including Caesars Palace, Harrah’s and Rio. “They are letting employees off with pay to go to the caucuses,” Mr. Reid said of the union.