 Donald J. Trump is increasingly taking jabs at Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who is riding momentum in Iowa less than a month before the caucuses there. But so far, Mr. Cruz is resisting the bait.  In the latest in a series of barbs against Mr. Cruz, Mr. Trump said there were questions about whether Mr. Cruz, who was born in Canada but whose mother was a United States citizen, was eligible to seek the presidency, making the comments in interviews with a New Hampshire television station and separately with The Washington Post.  The issue could end up tying Mr. Cruz up in court, Mr. Trump told The Post.  The Constitution restricts the presidency to a “natural born citizen,” but many legal scholars have said that this would apply to Mr. Cruz, although a similar issue has never been tested in the courts. Mr. Cruz, who was born in Calgary, renounced his Canadian citizenship in 2014. Mr. Cruz sought to brush off Mr. Trump’s questions about his eligibility, posting on Twitter a clip from the “jump the shark” episode of “Happy Days,” which has become a cultural reference for when something once popular has become overdone and gimmicky. — Ted Cruz (@tedcruz) January 5, 2016  “What the American people are interested in is not bickering and back and forth,” Mr. Cruz told reporters in Iowa when asked about Mr. Trump’s comments.  So far, Mr. Trump has used the new line of attack on Mr. Cruz only in interviews. At a rally in Claremont, N.H., on Tuesday night, he did not raise the issue. But the flap comes as Mr. Cruz is showing signs of threatening Mr. Trump’s perch in Iowa. Whatever happens there could have a ripple effect in the votes that immediately follow.  At a fund-raiser in New York City a few weeks before the holidays, Mr. Cruz raised questions about Mr. Trump’s judgment to the roughly 70 people in attendance. But he repeatedly declined to criticize Mr. Trump publicly afterward, praising him on Twitter as “terrific.” What the American people are interested in is not bickering and back and forth,” Mr. Cruz told reporters in Iowa. “A tweet from Donald Trump or from me or from anybody else — who cares?” he added. A reporter asked why Mr. Cruz bothered with the “Happy Days” tweet then. “Because the best way to respond to this kind of attack is to laugh,” he said. Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated when Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who was born in Canada, but whose mother was a United States citizen, renounced his dual citizenship with Canada. It was in 2014, not “years ago.”
