 Senator Rand Paul has been known to use the occasional campaign gimmick to get some attention and energize his base, which tends to be younger people with libertarian leanings. He has taken a chainsaw to the tax code, and he has set things on fire. This week, in an ode to transparency, he live-streamed an entire day of his life as a candidate. But more than anything, the exercise seemed to reveal Mr. Paul’s frustrations with a presidential bid that could be on the ropes. In one scene captured on YouTube, Mr. Paul is standing outside answering questions that people have been searching on Google. The search query “Is Rand Paul running for president?” seemed to be especially irksome. “I wouldn’t be doing this dumb-ass live-streaming if I weren’t,” Mr. Paul said. “Yes, I still am running for president. Get over it.” The next question was “Where is Rand Paul in the polls?” The Republican senator from Kentucky responded by asking, with a chuckle, if the footage could be edited. The real answer is that Mr. Paul’s national poll numbers have fallen below 3 percent, according to an average by RealClearPolitics, and he is at risk of not making the main stage at the next Republican debate. The senator’s core issues of privacy and auditing the Federal Reserve have failed to gain broad support among Republican voters, and his style of campaigning has made it difficult for him to attract new kinds of supporters. Mr. Paul acknowledged at a Republican gathering in Michigan last month that life on the trail could be an exhausting grind and that he often missed being home with his family. Some critics, such as Erick Erickson, the radio host and blogger for Red State, have suggested that Mr. Paul might want to consider focusing on getting re-elected to his Senate seat in Kentucky rather than continue his bid for the White House. “He had so much potential,” Mr. Erickson wrote on Wednesday. “But that is all in the past.” Mr. Paul tried to jump-start his campaign over the summer by attacking Donald J. Trump, but the maneuver seemed to backfire as the billionaire developer pummeled Mr. Paul with ridicule over his poll numbers, policies and even his appearance. Not letting up while his rival is down, Mr. Trump even mocked Mr. Paul’s efforts to broadcast his campaign. “Watching Rand Paul for the entire day, I would say that’d be one of the low-rated shows in history,” Mr. Trump said Tuesday on Fox News.