 ALTON, N.H. — Jeb Bush just wants to say Merry Christmas. At a town hall-style event on Monday, a woman stood to thank Mr. Bush for wishing the crowd “Merry Christmas” in his remarks, noting that he would not have done so were he “a radical Muslim.” (“No, that’s for sure,” Mr. Bush replied.) But Mr. Bush, who is Roman Catholic, also used her comment to note that celebrating one’s faith should be a joyous occasion. ”I’ve lit the Hanukkah candles in celebration of Hanukkah, and there I said, ‘Happy Hanukkah,’” he said. Then, gesturing around the American Legion post — strewn with metallic tinsel, paper snowflakes dangling from the ceiling, and a blowup reindeer in a Santa hat popping out of a wreath — he added, to applause: “And here you see the adornments and it looks Christmas-y, so I think it’s O.K. to say Merry Christmas. We’re getting a little too politically correct in this country.” On Tuesday, at a stop in Berlin, N.H., Mr. Bush again seemed eager to wish the crowd not just a happy holiday, but also a very Merry Christmas. Spotting a priest, who was beginning to ask a question, Mr. Bush interjected. “Merry Christmas,” he said, with relief. “I know I can say it to you.” Mr. Bush, of course, is simply joining a long list of politicians deploying the holiday-specific greeting not just as a Yuletide nod, but also as a way of taking a shot at political correctness, an attack the Republican base is especially eager to hear.  From a constitutional standpoint, the issue is not whether or not Americans can wish each other a happy Christmas ad nauseam in public, but just how far people can go with holiday displays on public property, and whether such greetings and decorations violate the First Amendment’s prohibition on government-backed religion.  But that has not stopped candidates from implying that the greeting itself is in jeopardy. Donald J. Trump, for instance, frequently and ostentatiously wishes his supporters “Merry Christmas,” and has promised that if he’s elected, voters can celebrate whatever holiday they want but should expect to hear “Merry Christmas” a lot more from their president.  Later on Tuesday, at his final public gathering before the holiday break, Mr. Bush began to tell a well-worn story from Florida, where he was governor from 1999 to 2007, about a young woman who had used the state’s voucher program to attend a private Christian school. But he couldn’t help but throw in a holiday twist: “And as we celebrate on the eve of Christmas — I hope no one takes offense to this — but I think that’s pretty good, to be able to go to a Christian school, if that’s what her parents and her godparent thought was the right thing to do.” No one took offense. 