 BURLINGTON, Vt. — As a line of hundreds snaked around the block and down the street from where Donald J. Trump was set to hold a rally on Thursday night, more than 100 protesters gathered across the street, hoisting signs reading “Bern, Trump, Bern” and chanting that Mr. Trump should stay away. More demonstrators clustered nearly, holding candles in silent vigil. In response, those at the head of the line to see Mr. Trump — many of whom had been standing in the cold all day to ensure that they get a seat in the oversubscribed auditorium at the Flynn Center for the Performing Arts — chanted, “Build a wall,” referring to an early campaign line of Mr. Trump, and “U.S.A.! U.S.A.!” It was a clash of words and signs not wholly unanticipated here in a liberal enclave that is fiercely loyal to Senator Bernie Sanders, the Democratic presidential candidate who was the mayor here before going on to Congress. Indeed, Mr. Trump’s decision to hold a campaign rally in Burlington was met by many residents with bewilderment, and some made a special effort to show their support for Mr. Sanders on Thursday. (Mr. Trump’s rally also caused some consternation among the local police, since his campaign handed out thousands of free tickets for a theater with just 1,400 seats.) Ben Cohen, the co-founder of Ben and Jerry’s, the famed ice cream company based nearby, was found walking down a pedestrian thoroughfare holding a campaign sign for Mr. Sanders that was lit up with pink neon lights. “Trump is here in our backyard, and we want to make it clear that we are dyed-in-the-wool Bernie people,” Mr. Cohen said. “They talk about Trump as being the politics of hate,” Mr. Cohen said, adding brightly, “Bernie is kind of the opposite.” At Frog Hollow, a gallery for local arts and crafts, the owners filled the window display with signs supporting Mr. Sanders, just to make a point during Mr. Trump’s visit. “I’m amazed Trump is here, I’m amazed,” said Steve Smith, 58, a resident of nearby Bristol who was shopping inside. Next door to the Flynn Center, the Kountry Kart Deli advertised a special sandwich called The Donald, costing $20.16 and consisting of bologna on white bread.