 Donald J. Trump spent much of his weekend needling Jeb Bush about his older brother’s record of keeping the country safe as president, suggesting that George W. Bush failed to protect the country from the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks. Mr. Bush mounted a vigorous defense of his brother’s record, and recent polling indicates that Republican voters are more likely to side with the Bushes on this question than with Mr. Trump – to a point. The war of words between the two candidates for the Republican presidential nomination has been escalating since the Republican debate last month, and it flared again over the weekend on the Sunday morning talk shows and on Twitter. In an interview on “Fox News Sunday,” Mr. Trump repeated his challenge to Mr. Bush’s contention that the United States was well protected under his brother’s leadership. “Jeb said: ‘We were safe with my brother. We were safe,’” Mr. Trump said on the program. “Well, the World Trade Center just fell down! Now, am I trying to blame him? I’m not blaming anybody. But the World Trade Center came down. So when he said, ‘We were safe,’ that’s not safe. We lost 3,000 people, it was one of the greatest — probably the greatest — catastrophe ever in this country, if you think about it, right?” While speaking ill of the second President Bush might pay off in a general election, New York Times/CBS News polls suggest that it might not be wise in the campaign for the Republican nomination. Support for the former president remains high among loyal G.O.P. voters. When George W. Bush left office in January 2009, 72 percent of Republicans (but only 26 percent of Americans) viewed him favorably, and in April, that number was unchanged among Republicans (and had risen a bit, to 30 percent, among all Americans). Asked about the latest comments by Mr. Trump, Jeb Bush, in an interview on CNN’s “State of the Union,” said: “Look, my brother responded to a crisis, and he did it as you would hope a president would do. He united the country. He organized our country, and he kept us safe. And there’s no denying that.” Speaking of Mr. Trump, he continued: “And I don’t know why he keeps bringing this up. It doesn’t show that he’s a serious person as it relates to being commander in chief and being the architect of a foreign policy.” But some recent polls suggest that Republican voters today put more faith in Mr. Trump on foreign policy than in the third member of the Bush family to seek the presidency. A CNN/ORC survey conducted after the first Republican debate found that the party’s voters today were twice as likely to pick Mr. Trump over Mr. Bush as the candidate who can best handle foreign policy. Megan Thee-Brenan is a member of The Times’s news surveys department. This is one of an occasional series of posts taking a deeper look at polling during this campaign cycle.
