 If there has been one constant in the tempestuous presidential campaign of Donald J. Trump, it is his mantra of a “great, great wall” to be built on the United States–Mexico border. On Tuesday morning, Mr. Trump might have been displeased to find a more modest wall taking shape outside of his 68-story tower in Midtown Manhattan. At 7:25 a.m., a phalanx of demonstrators shuffled down Fifth Avenue and hoisted a series of 40-by-60-inch placards imploring the real estate mogul and Republican candidate to “Build Kindness Not Walls.” Several dozen supporters offered sporadic cheers of solidarity as the demonstrators held their foam wall in place for nearly two hours. While violence has roiled several Trump-related protests recently, this one remained peaceful. A team of slightly befuddled, if unamused, police officers looked on from a few feet away, but their services were not needed. The display was conceptualized by Timothy Goodman and Jessica Walsh, two graphic designers who have partnered previously on other social experiments like 40 Days of Dating. This latest effort is part of a larger project called 12 Kinds of Kindness. “Kindness has definitely been lacking this election cycle, but especially from Trump,” Mr. Goodman, 34, said. “It’s scary and horrific to see him applauding violence and exclusion in this way.” Isabelle Griffioen, a visual arts student who held an S, said she hoped to capture the attention of “decision makers” in New York who had yet to consider the consequences of Mr. Trump’s proposed wall. “We want to show people a concrete version of this thing we always hear about,” Ms. Griffioen, 24, said. “History tells us that walls never do any good.” While most passers-by appeared to be unfazed by the demonstration — Fifth Avenue has no shortage of visual oddities — many slowed their strides to take in the message. “We have the same problem in Europe,” Magdalena Bork, 41, who was visiting from Vienna, said. “It’s unbelievable that he has so many followers. He’s really managed to make people fearful.” Ms. Bork, returning from a run in Central Park, then paused for a moment to snap a photograph on her phone. “I wasn’t prepared to think of politics so early in the morning,” she said. “But of course everything is politics.”