 Victory sure tastes sweet. On Monday, Hillary Clinton stopped in at Mikey Likes It Ice Cream in the East Village, where the owner, Mikey Cole, had named an opulent ice cream sundae after the former New York senator.  “That’s a victory!” Mrs. Clinton said as she broke her rule not to eat in front of the press and took a heaping spoonful. Mr. Cole said he had dreamed up the concoction, which consisted of a double chocolate waffle stuffed with Oreo cookies and topped off with a scoop of milk chocolate ice cream, semisweet chocolate chips, marshmallows and a chocolate-covered cherry, after he met Mrs. Clinton a couple of months ago. “Mikey has such a great story,” Mrs. Clinton said of the ex-con-turned-small-business-owner, whose hip-hop-inspired ice cream shop has become an East Village staple. “I told him when I saw him, I don’t know, a few months ago now, that I would come here, and I couldn’t wait any longer.” A horde of onlookers crammed around the block on Avenue A to get a glimpse inside the tiny shop. If Mrs. Clinton seemed like an outsider in the hipster ’hood, she said she loved the East Village. Asked if she went there when she was campaigning for the Senate, Mrs. Clinton said: “Absolutely! And even when I wasn’t campaigning. Just living in New York.” At the next stop, a lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender center in Greenwich Village, Mrs. Clinton appeared to have let the victory sundae go to her head. “I’m hoping to do really well tomorrow. I’m hoping to wrap up the Democratic nomination,” she said. The crowd of supporters who had been working phone banks erupted, chanting “Hillary! Hillary!” at her uncharacteristically bold prediction. She calmed the cheers.  “But, but I’m not taking anything for granted,” Mrs. Clinton said, realizing the comment may have seemed as if she were getting ahead of herself. “I’ve got to quickly add that before anyone has the wrong impression.” “After tomorrow we have to go to Pennsylvania, and Connecticut, and Rhode Island and Delaware and Maryland, then all the way to California on June 7,” she told the crowd. “So we have to stay with this, but then we also have to get ready for the general election, which is going to be really, really challenging. And I know we’re going to win because we’re on the right side of history.”
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.