 Senator Ted Cruz of Texas has erased Donald J. Trump’s lead in a new national poll that could signal a significant shift in the race for the Republican nomination with primary election season in full swing. According to an NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released on Wednesday, 28 percent of Republican primary voters support Mr. Cruz, while 26 percent back Mr. Trump. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 5 percentage points, leaving the candidates in a virtual tie. Mr. Trump was leading by 13 points in the same poll in January. He has consistently topped national surveys of Republicans for months, as he has dominated news media coverage and batted away opponents who started to gain on him. Ben Carson, the retired neurosurgeon, briefly displaced Mr. Trump in a New York Times/CBS poll in October and in a Public Religion Research Institute poll the following month. It remains unclear if the NBC/W.S.J. poll is an outlier or a harbinger. Two other polls released Wednesday — from Quinnipiac University and USA Today/Suffolk University — showed Mr. Trump with commanding leads nationally over Mr. Cruz and the rest of the field. Bill McInturff, the pollster who conducted the NBC/W.S.J. survey, said in a statement, “When you see a number this different, it means you might be right on top of a shift in the campaign.” “What you don’t know yet,” he added, “is if the change is going to take place or if it is a momentary ‘pause’ before the numbers snap back into place.” The poll was conducted after the New Hampshire primary last Tuesday and the Republican presidential debate on Saturday – a contentious affair during which Mr. Trump was attacked from all sides and came off as angry and unsteady at times. Some political analysts suggested that he might have damaged his standing with Republicans by loudly criticizing former President George W. Bush for failing to keep Americans safe on Sept. 11, 2001, and for bungling the Iraq war. The NBC News/W.S.J. poll noted that its sample of 400 Republican primary voters consisted of more people who consider themselves “very conservative” than its January poll. This likely gave Mr. Cruz a boost of about three percentage points. The Texas senator basked in the result at an event in Spartanburg, S.C., on Wednesday afternoon. “For the first time in many months, there’s a new national front-runner on the Republican side,” Mr. Cruz said to applause. “The sound you’re hearing is the sound of screams coming from Washington, D.C.” Trailing Mr. Cruz and Mr. Trump were Senator Marco Rubio with 17 percent, Gov. John Kasich of Ohio with 11 percent and Mr. Carson with 10 percent. In last place was Jeb Bush, with the support of just 4 percent of Republican voters. While the latest national numbers might be worrying for Mr. Trump, things are looking up in South Carolina ahead of the Republican primary there on Saturday. A Monmouth University survey of likely Republican voters released on Wednesday found that 35 percent plan to back Mr. Trump. Lagging far behind were Mr. Cruz and Mr. Rubio, with 19 percent and 17 percent, respectively. Mr. Kasich, Mr. Bush, and Mr. Carson were all stuck in single digits. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points. “The overwhelmingly negative feelings of South Carolina Republicans toward the political establishment have helped Trump build upon the support he enjoyed since the summer,” Patrick Murray, director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute, said. “The fact that six candidates are still in the race partly accounts for the size of his lead, despite the fact that he has relatively high negative ratings over all.” Matt Flegenheimer contributed reporting from Spartanburg, S.C.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.