 It has been almost a week since Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina suggested in a State of the Union response that her fellow Republicans dial down their anger. For Tea Party activists in her state, the advice has served only to frustrate them further. At the South Carolina Tea Party Coalition Convention that concluded on Monday, conservatives were excited to hear from Republican presidential candidates such as Donald. J. Trump, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Mike Huckabee. But mention of Ms. Haley had a tendency to sour moods. “A lot of people aren’t pleased,” said John Steinberger, a “fair tax” activist from Charleston. “If you’re giving the State of the Union response, you should explain why you oppose the president’s policies instead of attacking fellow Republicans.” Ms. Haley’s remarks offered some thinly veiled criticism of Mr. Trump over policy proposals she considers to be divisive. The day after her speech, she made clear that she was referring to Mr. Trump, who is leading most polls of Republicans both nationally and in early primary states. Mr. Trump is popular with many voters who align themselves with the Tea Party and Ms. Haley’s slight was seen as an affront to a group that helped her get elected in 2010. Marlajean Hamby, of Pawleys Island, said that Ms. Haley had become “totally establishment” and had forgotten the voters who had put her in office. “Our governor used the Tea Party to get elected, and now she’s going to endorse Rubio or Bush,” Ms. Hamby said. “She would never get elected here again.” Ms. Haley, who is in her second term as governor, said last week that she was open to discussing the possibility of joining a ticket as a vice-presidential nominee. But while her star is rising in the party, the same cannot be said of her in some corners of her home state. “I walked in our county to put her over the top,” Paul Anderko, of Rock Hill, said. “I don’t know what happened to her. I’m disappointed.”
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.