 Donald J. Trump’s new convention manager accused Senator Ted Cruz’s campaign on Sunday of employing “Gestapo” delegate-wrangling tactics and said Mr. Trump still had several paths to winning the nomination before the July convention. The remarks from Paul Manafort, whom Mr. Trump has hired to manage the arcane process of a drawn-out nomination fight, came as Mr. Cruz swept the slate of delegates in Colorado this weekend and continued to outmaneuver Mr. Trump in several states. Mr. Manafort said that Mr. Cruz had been playing dirty but that the Trump campaign was ready for a gritty battle for delegates. “You go to these county conventions, and you see the tactics, Gestapo tactics, the scorched-earth tactics,” Mr. Manafort said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “We’re going to be filing several protests because reality is, you know, they are not playing by the rules.” Mr. Manafort, a veteran Republican strategist who worked on the presidential campaigns of Gerald R. Ford and Bob Dole, seemed to insinuate that Mr. Cruz had been threatening delegates, but did not offer any specifics about foul play. As for his own tactics, Mr. Manafort said he intended to make sure that Mr. Trump had an opportunity to communicate directly with delegates and make his case about why they should support him. Mr. Trump holds a lead of more than 200 pledged delegates over Mr. Cruz, but will need strong performances in the remaining states to win the majority of delegates that he needs to become the nominee before the convention. “I’m confident; we have several ways through June 7th to go over 1,237,” Mr. Manafort said. “And, you know, not counted in that at all are any of these unbound delegates who are getting selected, many of whom I feel pretty good about.” Mr. Trump has kept a relatively low profile for the last few days, but has expressed frustration on social media about the fact that he must dredge for delegates despite having won more votes than his Republican opponents. In a Twitter post on Sunday morning, he accused the Cruz campaign of offering “goodies” to nonrepresentative delegates in a state he had won. “Bad system!” Mr. Trump said.