 John H. Sununu, the former governor of New Hampshire who has been voicing increasing concern about what a Donald J. Trump victory in his state would mean for his party, twisted the knife after the billionaire’s second-place finish in the Iowa caucuses on Tuesday morning — and offered a preview of the attacks he is about to face. “There were two winners last night — one was Cruz, and one was Rubio — and there was one loser last night, that was Trump,” Mr. Sununu, the New Hampshire governor in the 1980s who later served as White House chief of staff under President George Bush, said in a telephone interview. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas came in first in the Republican caucuses, with Mr. Trump four percentage points behind him. Mr. Rubio was one percentage point behind Mr. Trump. “In New Hampshire,” Mr. Sununu, 76, said of the primary, which will be next Tuesday, “I still think about half the voters are undecided or prepared to change their mind. I think Trump’s loss will remind people that the guy has a history of losses.” From there, he appeared to read off line items from an opposition research file, talking about Mr. Trump’s bankruptcies in his business and the difficulties encountered by Trump University. “There is no longer Trump Vodka,” Mr. Sununu continued, also mentioning “Trump fragrances” and “three magazines that Mr. Trump put his name on.” Mr. Trump has repeatedly denounced Mr. Sununu’s criticism. But the line of attack, aimed squarely at Mr. Trump’s business history, is a fresh provocation as the candidate heads into a state where his lead in polls was in double digits just before the Iowa caucuses, and where he will need a victory to propel him toward the Republican nomination. A spokeswoman for Mr. Trump did not respond to an email seeking comment. Mr. Trump, who is normally a visible Twitter user and a frequent guest by phone on the morning TV programs after major events, was silent on Twitter for about 15 hours. Late Tuesday morning he finally posted: — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 2, 2016  — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 2, 2016 