 MAQUOKETA, Iowa — Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont tied himself to Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton to Wall Street as he returned to Iowa on Saturday for a weekend tour through the state. Mr. Sanders began his day in Davenport by speaking to more than 150 supporters who were headed out to canvass for him in the Quad Cities. He then hosted two town-hall-style meetings as well as a speech that was streamed live online. His message: Mrs. Clinton is getting nervous and so is Wall Street. “Eight years ago, Obama was being attacked for everything,” Mr. Sanders told 700 people in Clinton, Iowa. “His ideas were pie in the sky. He did not have the experience that was needed. But you know what? People in Iowa saw through those attacks then and they are going to see through those attacks again.” Mr. Sanders, who frequently mentions the millions of dollars in speaking fees that Mrs. Clinton earned from Wall Street companies, noted that some of the “super PAC” ads attacking him were supported by Wall Street donors. He also took aim at Stephen A. Schwarzman, chief executive of Blackstone, a private equity and financial advisory firm, for saying markets are unsettled because of geopolitical instability, the slowdown in China and “because Bernie Sanders has become a viable candidate, at least in Iowa and New Hampshire.” “It appears that we have Wall Street a little bit nervous,” Mr. Sanders said in Davenport, laughing aloud. “They are afraid that we can revitalize the Democratic Party, bring in millions of young people and working-class people, but that’s not something that anybody in this room is nervous about. That is exactly what we want.” President Bill Clinton’s name also came up. “The other day, he said, ‘Bernie Sanders is angry,’” Mr. Sanders said of Mr. Clinton. “And, you know what? It is true. I am angry and the American people are angry.” (“This other guy’s madder than she is,” Mr. Clinton had said in Las Vegas on Thursday. “And that feels authentic. And besides, his slogans are easier to say. I say that with no disrespect. I admire him.”) Mr. Sanders said people are angry because of low wages, income inequality and the number of people dealing with large student loans. He said that the Republican candidate Donald J. Trump’s campaign is also tapping people’s anger by scapegoating ethnic groups and dividing Americans, while he is trying to bring people together for a “political revolution,” his defining call to action. Throughout the day, Mr. Sanders also pointed out, to cheers, that he does better than Mrs. Clinton in national polls versus Mr. Trump. “In poll after poll, we do better versus Trump and other G.O.P. candidates than Hillary does,” Mr. Sanders said in Davenport as supporters hollered and stomped their feet. (In a recent NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll, he fared slightly better in a hypothetical matchup with Mr. Trump than Mrs. Clinton did.)  During a question-and-answer period at an event in Maquoketa, a woman told Mr. Sanders she was concerned about whom he will choose to be his running mate because of his age. (He is 74.) Mr. Sanders said he had not chosen someone but did describe the kind of person who might be on the shortlist. “My vice-presidential nominee will be somebody who has a history of standing up for working families,” Mr. Sanders said. “Rest assured that person will not be coming from Wall Street or corporate America.” Mr. Sanders plans to spend much of his time in Iowa ahead of the state’s Feb. 1 caucuses, though he will briefly visit Minnesota on Tuesday.