 Republicans are gathering to debate on Tuesday with an unpleasant question lingering in the background: whether, in the long run, they will all remain Republicans. In recent days, Ben Carson has joined Donald J. Trump in prompting speculation about a third-party bid, a perilous prospect for the Republican Party. Mr. Carson suggested he could leave the party in a statement he issued on Friday, after The Washington Post reported that Republican leaders who met for a dinner had discussed the possibility of a brokered convention in the event that Mr. Trump continued to lead the field. “If this was the beginning of a plan to subvert the will of the voters and replace it with the will of the political elite, I assure you Donald Trump will not be the only one leaving the party,” Mr. Carson said. He added: “I am prepared to lose fair and square, as I am sure is Donald. But I will not sit by and watch a theft. I intend on being the nominee. If I am not, the winner will have my support. If the winner isn’t our nominee then we have a massive problem.” Mr. Carson’s declaration served again to highlight the clout of anti-establishment outsiders in this year’s Republican primary, in which Mr. Carson and Mr. Trump have thrived. It also showed the difficulty that Republican leaders face in responding to the rise of the two men, because party leaders risk antagonizing the outsider candidates and their supporters. In some ways, though, Mr. Carson’s warning is less panic-inducing than the prospect of Mr. Trump mounting a third-party bid. While Mr. Trump could self-finance a robust third-party campaign, Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon, does not have the resources to do so. On Sunday, in an interview on ABC’s “This Week,” Mr. Carson once again voiced a willingness to leave the Republican fold. “One of the reasons that I got into this is because I heard the frustration in people who are so tired of backroom deals, of subterfuge, of dishonesty,” he said. “If that is the case, then, you know, I’m out of here.” Mr. Carson said the chairman of the Republican National Committee, Reince Priebus, had assured him that the meeting of Republican leaders was routine, and that “the last thing that they would do is engage in back room dealing.” “But, you know, the jury’s out,” Mr. Carson added. “We’ll certainly be keeping a close eye on things.”