 Ben Carson’s surge over Donald J. Trump in Iowa, where Mr. Carson is now in first place in back-to-back opinion polls of Republican caucusgoers, may indicate that Mr. Carson is improving as a candidate or Mr. Trump’s hopes are dimming. Or the polls could simply be registering the perennial rise of social conservatives and evangelical Christians to a commanding position of influence in the caucuses. Many of these voters have long favored Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon whose candidacy weaves traditionally Republican positions with a message about the power of redemption – surrendering to God after his troubled, violent childhood in Detroit – and the value of human life. While conservatives have a history of splitting their vote among many candidates, enough of them coalesced around a single candidate in the 2012 and 2008 caucuses to make a difference. Mr. Carson is hoping to galvanize them again. With Mr. Carson receiving 28 percent support from likely caucusgoers in the Thursday and Friday polls, compare that with the past performances of candidates who also had strong support from social conservatives: 2012 caucuses – Rick Santorum earned 25 percent of the total caucus vote, enough to squeak out a victory over Mitt Romney. 2008 caucuses – Mike Huckabee won the caucuses with 35 percent of the vote, with Mr. Romney coming in second with 25 percent. 2000 caucuses – Steve Forbes, Alan Keyes and Gary Bauer received a combined 53 percent of the caucus vote. (George W. Bush won the caucuses with 41 percent.) 1996 caucuses – Pat Buchanan, Mr. Forbes and Mr. Keyes took a combined 41 percent of the vote. (Bob Dole won with 26 percent.) 1988 caucuses – Pat Robertson won 25 percent of the vote. (Mr. Dole won with 37 percent.) No Republican has yet to become the dominant establishment candidate – not to mention the eventual party nominee – akin to Mr. Romney, Mr. Bush and Mr. Dole. Contenders for 2016 like Mr. Trump, Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio are attracting relatively sizable shares of support in Iowa polls. But if Mr. Carson can continue galvanizing the conservative Christian vote and no one emerges as the pick of the establishment, he could well be the Santorum or Huckabee of the 2016 caucuses (rather than an also-ran like Mr. Buchanan or Mr. Robertson).