 URBANDALE, Iowa — At a town-hall-style meetings across Iowa, Hillary Clinton on Wednesday seemed as if she could hardly wait to pivot from Donald J. Trump to her plans to overhaul corporate taxes. Mr. Trump’s comments have sucked up much of the oxygen in the presidential race, but the crowd at the convention center in Waterloo heard mostly about what Mrs. Clinton planned to do to curb multinational corporation’s efforts to avoid paying taxes. Shortly after denouncing Mr. Trump’s recent remarks about barring foreign Muslims from entering the United States, Mrs. Clinton shifted to tell the story of a remarkable 3D printer she saw earlier Wednesday on a tour of a nearby casting center at the University of Northern Iowa. “I asked where that big machine was made,” she said. As it turns out, she said, “Germany!” Mrs. Clinton tried to explain in simple terms her plan to eliminate so-called corporate inversions, which allow United States companies to combine with a foreign company and move the headquarters to pay a lower tax rate abroad.  “You may have heard of something called an inversion,” Mrs. Clinton said. “That’s a fancy word for a trick.” The topic has become more visible after the drug maker Pfizer announced a $160 billion merger last month with the Irish company Allergan, a deal that prompted widespread disapproval from Democrats. Mrs. Clinton’s tax plan, details of which were unveiled by her campaign shortly before the town hall event, includes calling on Congress to require companies in the United States to control 50 percent of the combined entity in order to expatriate, compared with the 20 percent stake currently required, and instituting an “exit tax” on the untaxed overseas earnings of companies that give up their residence in the United States. President Obama has encountered legal challenges in his efforts to use executive action to crack down on “earnings stripping,” or the practice in which multinational companies shift profits to countries with lower tax rates. Nonetheless, Mrs. Clinton said she would push to close the tax loophole, which her campaign estimated costs taxpayers as much as $60 billion over 10 years. At the town hall on Wednesday, when a voter asked Mrs. Clinton about the national debt, she said that measures like closing corporate tax loopholes would pay for expensive government proposals, like a program to make college more affordable and one to develop infrastructure.  “I do come from the Clinton school of economics,” she said, quoting Bill Clinton’s line in the early days of his presidency that he had brought “arithmetic” to Washington.