 Sometimes, it’s as critical what your friends say as your enemies. Senator Ted Cruz, already under attack in Iowa for opposing government support for ethanol, has won the support of an out-of-state conservative leader, Ken Cuccinelli II, who on Tuesday aimed an unusually blistering attack on “Big Corn” in Iowa. Mr. Cuccinelli, a Tea Party hero who ran unsuccessfully for governor of Virginia in 2013, emailed subscribers to a personal list with an attack on Gov. Terry Branstad of Iowa, a popular Republican governor, and his son, Eric Branstad. “The Governor of Iowa is a Big Corn cheerleader, and his son is running a super PAC hitting Cruz for not bowing to worship Big Corn. Tsk, tsk,’’ wrote Mr. Cuccinelli, the former attorney general of Virginia. He described an agricultural forum in Iowa early in the year attended by presidential hopefuls as a “Big corn kiss up confab.’’ Mr. Cruz is leading Iowa polls of likely Republican caucus-goers despite opposing federal support of ethanol, a major Iowa industry, which he calls corporate welfare and a distortion of the free market. The ethanol industry has paid for tough anti-Cruz radio and TV ads in Iowa, which accuse the Texas senator of hypocrisy for backing tax breaks for oil and gas drillers, an important issue in his home state.  The group run by Eric Branstad aims to make support for the Renewable Fuel Standard, a federal mandate that ethanol be blended into gasoline, a litmus test for candidates in the Feb. 1 caucuses. Every Republican caucus winner in the last quarter-century has been a strong ethanol supporter. But Mr. Cruz’s polling lead suggests the industry’s popular and political clout may be ebbing. Mr. Cruz has never tried to play down his call to end the fuel standard, unlike some rivals.  Still, it may not be to his advantage to have supporters like Mr. Cuccinelli waving a red cape at an iconic Iowa industry. “Suddenly, the special interests are facing the real possibility that their gravy train could get derailed,’’ Mr. Cuccinelli writes.  “How?  If Senator Ted Cruz becomes President Ted Cruz, that’s how.’’ Federal subsidies for corn, he adds, in what he calls a paraphrase of Mr. Cruz, are “bad for the environment, bad for food prices, bad for America, and are corrupting our politics.’’