 Senator Elizabeth Warren delivered a scalding rebuke of Donald J. Trump on Tuesday night, describing him as a “a small, insecure, money grubber” as she escalated her feud with the presumptive Republican nominee. In a rousing speech at the Center for Popular Democracy’s annual gala in Washington, Ms. Warren embraced her role as one of Mr. Trump’s fiercest critics. She assailed him unsparingly as a heartless tax dodger cozying up with Wall Street who preyed on the misfortunes of Americans stricken by the financial crisis. “Donald Trump was drooling over the idea of a housing meltdown because it meant he could buy up a bunch more property on the cheap,” said Ms. Warren, a Democrat from Massachusetts. “What kind of a man does that?” She went on to argue that Mr. Trump was rooting for people to lose their jobs and be kicked out of their houses. “I’ll tell you exactly what kind of a man does that,” Ms. Warren added. “It is a man who cares about no one but himself. A small, insecure money-grubber who doesn’t care who gets hurt so long as he makes a profit off it.” Ms. Warren’s attacks on Mr. Trump echo those leveled by Hillary Clinton, the likely Democratic presidential nominee, who has seized on comments that he made a decade ago when he suggested that the collapse of the housing market was a good investing opportunity. Ms. Warren has been a frequent critic of Mr. Trump on social media and has been increasingly taking him on in public forums. On Tuesday night, Ms. Warren also suggested that Mr. Trump pays no taxes while reaping the benefits of American public infrastructure. And she hit him for saying that he would undo the Dodd-Frank financial regulation legislation, wondering if Mr. Trump could even name three things about the law. “Donald Trump is worried about helping poor little Wall Street?” Ms. Warren said. “Let me find the world’s smallest violin to play a sad, sad song.” Calling Mr. Trump an “urgent threat” to the country, Ms. Warren painted him as someone who inherited a fortune from his father, then grew it by swindling people and skipping out on his debts. Mr. Trump has responded to charges that he sought to profit from the recession by claiming that he was doing what he was supposed to do as a successful businessman. On Wednesday, he called Ms. Warren “goofy” in a post on Twitter and said she has done less in the Senate than almost anyone else. “All talk, no action!” Mr. Trump said.