 When The Huffington Post put up a Facebook video on Friday of Gov. Chris Christie speaking about his mother’s addiction to cigarettes and his friend’s death from addiction, it wasn’t with the expectancy that it would become one of the most watched videos on its Facebook account. Mr. Christie, of New Jersey, has been talking about drug overhaul since 2010, and he frequently touches on the subject on the campaign trail, as have other candidates, like Hillary Rodham Clinton. Almost instantly, the video began to get noticed. Both The Huffington Post and the Christie campaign shared the video numerous times over the weekend, and by Monday morning, it had taken off. Views quickly ascended into the millions, and the video was shared repeatedly on Twitter and Facebook, reaching the likes of Mark Zuckerberg and even Rachel Maddow, who called the video an indicator of “why people think that Chris Christie is still a contender.” The Christie campaign now had the golden moment all campaigns dream of in the social media era, more valuable than any well-placed television ad: a truly viral moment. But rather than immediately build a fund-raising campaign or “money bomb,” or even try to get supporters to sign a petition or other email gathering operation, the Christie campaign instead chose to try and build on the moment and make it last. They turned to the medium that started it all — Facebook — and began engaging. “There is no scientific formula to what makes something viral, and this video is no different,” said Lauren Fritts, the digital director of the Christie campaign. “Focusing on engagement, we made sure to use the governor’s Facebook page with people commenting on the video both on The Huffington Post page and our page.” Through his account, Mr. Christie replied to commenters on the original post, like a virtual version of the town hall-style events he prides himself on.   To traditional supporters, like Kerry Campbell, who identified herself as a “conservative-leaning independent,” Mr. Christie thanked her for her comments. “Don’t worry — I am not giving up,” he wrote under her comment. “I am fighting for this. And will continue to fight as your president.”  To those, like Vasco Tchakarov, who offered up their stories of battling addiction, Mr. Christie thanked them for their response. “Thank you for sharing your story, Vasco,” Mr. Christie said. “It’s voices like yours that help us end the stigma surrounding the disease.” Even those who identified as Democrats had kind words for Mr. Christie, like Dave N Elaine Grisham, who thanked Mr. Christie for talking about the issue. “It is an important and necessary conversation to have nationally, no matter your party affiliation,” Mr. Christie responded, adding, “Share on your page to keep the conversation going.” Others began to share the post, keeping it widely shared well into midweek, six days after it posted. The campaign did not completely ignore the possibility of growing through a viral moment; they also bought search ads related to the video, but driving people to the campaign’s issues page, not a fund-raising module. But at the heart of it, the campaign said it believed the message, in its personal and unfiltered tone, is what gave the video its life.  “So, HuffPo posted, we shared it at what we think is the best time and in the best ways, but it’s the governor’s message that connected so directly with people that they felt inclined to share,” Ms. Fritts said. “Results? Viral.”