 Join us for live updates and analysis of Super Tuesday. _____ Donald J. Trump said it was the earpiece he was using in a television interview with CNN, through a remote connection, as the reason he declined to disavow any support from the former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke on Sunday. “I’m sitting in a house in Florida with a very bad earpiece they gave me and you could hardly hear what he was saying,” Mr. Trump said on the “Today” show on Monday, after about 24 hours of condemnation from Democrats and Republicans. Mr. Trump was seeking to quell a controversy kicked off by his comments a day earlier, which drew some of the most sustained criticism he has received from Republicans. In that interview with CNN’s Jake Tapper on “State of the Union,” Mr. Trump declined to say he did not want the support of Mr. Duke, who is seen as an enormously toxic figure politically for his racial views. Mr. Trump told Mr. Tapper that he didn’t know Mr. Duke. But when he considered running for president as a third-party candidate in 2000, he declined to accept the support of the Reform Party, citing Mr. Duke’s involvement with the group as a reason. And he appeared to have no problem hearing the questions being posed.

Video

Rubio Criticizes Trump Over David Duke


Marco Rubio denounced his fellow Republican candidate Donald J. Trump for not disavowing the support of the former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke.

                By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS on                                                    Publish Date February 29, 2016.
                            

                                    Photo by Eric Thayer for The New York Times.
                                







embed










 Throughout the Sunday interview with Mr. Tapper, Mr. Trump answered all the questions, repeated Mr. Duke’s name, and never complained about having trouble hearing. The flare-up over Mr. Duke, a former Louisiana lawmaker, comes just days before a series of conservative Southern state “Super Tuesday” primaries in which Mr. Trump is hoping for a round of victories that could give him a commanding delegate lead in his pursuit of the Republican nomination..  In the “Today” show interview, Mr. Trump pointed out that he had disavowed Mr. Duke, briefly, on Friday at a news conference. “First of all he talked about David Duke and other groups,” Mr. Trump said, adding he didn’t know who the other groups were so he couldn’t comment. “I know who he is but I never met David Duke,” Mr. Trump said. “I disavowed David Duke a day before at a major press conference.”