 The group trying to persuade Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to enter the presidential race is set to broadcast an unusual commercial on national television in which Mr. Biden recounts how his life was shaped by the 1972 car accident that claimed the life of his first wife and their daughter and nearly killed his two sons. The haunting, mostly black-and-white commercial from the group, Draft Biden, features audio from a speech he gave at Yale University’s commencement in May, just days before his elder son, Beau, died of brain cancer. At a minute and a half, it is longer than most political ads. There is no direct mention of Beau Biden, but the ad includes an image of the vice president with his older son, wearing his National Guard uniform, while the vice president invokes his own father. “My dad’s definition of success is when you look at your son or daughter and realize they turned out better than you – and they did,” Mr. Biden says in the commercial, titled “Joe Biden: ‘My Redemption.’ ” The ad is to have its debut on NBC’s “Today” show on Wednesday morning, and it will be shown on CNN on Tuesday in the hours leading up to the cable channel’s coverage of the first Democratic presidential debate. The initial buy is for $250,000, according to Draft Biden officials, who said they hoped to add to that. Their hope is to spur a conversation, much as Super Bowl commercials often do, and to generate further interest on social media. Mr. Biden has for weeks been openly wrestling with whether he has, as he puts it, “the emotional energy” to mount a presidential race. The loss of his son and his very public struggle with his grief have generated considerable sympathy from voters, something that this ad explicitly seeks to build on. The ad opens with snowy treetops and a lonely two-lane highway — evoking the deadly highway accident in which a tractor-trailer slammed into the family’s station wagon while they had been out Christmas shopping. Mark Putnam, the ad’s creator, said the accident was “a hinge point” for Mr. Biden, who, at just 29, had been elected only six weeks earlier. “That’s when he gained so much empathy for what other people are going through, for their own tragedies,” said Mr. Putnam, who first worked for Mr. Biden as a 22-year-old aide during the vice president’s 1988 presidential run. He added, “You can’t do that story justice with only a 30-second or 60-second ad.” Mr. Putnam said he not spoken to Mr. Biden about the ad — or anything else. “I haven’t seen him in a long time,” he said. “I really don’t know if he’s going to run.”