 KEENE, N.H. — Standing inside a packed high school gymnasium here, Donald J. Trump rolled out something of a new campaign line. “I did a very sophisticated, very beautifully detailed policy paper,” Mr. Trump said, referring to the tax plan he released on Monday, adding, “And I’m going to go over it just quickly.” With mentions of corporate inversion, marriage penalties and the estate tax, it was a wonkier-than-usual discussion for Mr. Trump, who is leading in the Republican presidential polls and is known better for his bombast and divisive one-liners than his detailed explanations of policy.  “We’re cutting down from seven brackets to four, and the rates are going from 25 to 20 to 10 and to 0,” Mr. Trump said. “When somebody’s not making enough to live, what’s the purpose of them doing lengthy returns?” Still, speaking to a crowd that he said was 3,564 strong, Mr. Trump made time for his signature barbs, as when he pivoted to a discussion of ISIS, or the Islamic State, and to the appearance of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and President Obama at the United Nations this week. “We have a president who doesn’t know what he’s doing,” Mr. Trump said, adding, “Remember,” he said, when Mr. Obama said “that ISIS was the J.V.? Well he looked like the J.V. last week when you compared him to Putin.”  Mr. Trump also said he was skeptical of the refugees who are fleeing war-torn Syria in droves.  “Now I hear we want to take in 200,000 Syrians,” Mr. Trump said, to some boos in the crowd. “They could be ISIS.” Mr. Trump said he would not want those refugees to remain in the United States if they are admitted here.  “If I win,” he said, “they’re going back.” During his speech, Mr. Trump complimented Carly Fiorina, the former chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, saying that she had done a “great job” in the most recent debate. And he worked to tie Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who has risen recently in the polls, to his political mentor, Jeb Bush, and said both were drawing smaller crowds than he had. “When Bush has 125 people,” he said referring to what he said was the expected crowd at a Bush event in the state, “and when Rubio comes in and you have 12 people,” said Mr. Trump, adding, “Nobody has crowds like this.” In fact, Mr. Bush addressed considerably more people at his town hall-style event in Bedford, where a smattering of attendees were required to stand as he held forth on energy policy, the crisis in Syria and the Volkswagen scandal, among other subjects. After the event, Mr. Bush said that Mr. Trump had “no knowledge of my relationship with Marco Rubio.” He said he admired Mr. Rubio, allowing that it was “a little awkward” that they were competing for the same job. But both men, Mr. Bush said, were more than capable of withstanding Mr. Trump’s broadsides. “I’m pretty sure Marco can put his big boy pants on; I know I can,” Mr. Bush said, adding, “Donald seems to have a harder time taking criticism, and he probably needs to put on his big boy pants too.” Matt Flegenheimer contributed reporting from Bedford, N.H.