 Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, who is often mentioned as a potential vice-presidential candidate if his White House bid fails, vowed on Wednesday that he would not be anyone’s running mate in 2016. Although Mr. Kasich has been languishing in the polls, the promise could come as a relief to Democrats, who have expressed concern that he could make a strong addition to the Republican ticket because of his moderate views and Ohio roots. Winning the Buckeye State is crucial to securing the presidency, and Mr. Kasich is popular there and could appeal to Democrats and independents. Following remarks at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York on Wednesday, Mr. Kasich was asked what he would do if Donald J. Trump asked him to run as his vice president. He ruled out the job entirely. “I wouldn’t run for vice president on any ticket,” Mr. Kasich said. “I’m not running for vice president. I’ve got the second-best job in the world, governor of Ohio. Don’t be thinking about vice president for Kasich — ain’t gonna happen, mark my words.” Mr. Kasich avoided mentioning Mr. Trump during his foreign policy speech, but afterward he unloaded on the billionaire developer and his proposal to bar Muslims from entering the United States. He also inched closer to backing away from the pledge that he and the other Republican candidates made this year promising to support the party’s eventual nominee. “I signed a pledge — that’s why you have to be careful what pledges you sign — that I would support the Republican nominee,” Mr. Kasich said. “Now look, is it possible that you change your mind? Yeah, it would take something extreme to do it.” Since Mr. Trump announced his Muslim immigration ban this week, Republican presidential hopefuls have demurred when asked if they would drop their promise to support him if he is nominated. Democrats have challenged Republicans to back away from Mr. Trump, but Republicans remain fearful that he could mount an independent bid, hurting their chances in the general election. Despite Mr. Trump’s continued dominance in state and national polls, Mr. Kasich said he was confident that he would never have to make good on his promise to back Mr. Trump. “There’s no way that Donald Trump is going to be president,” Mr. Kasich said. “I don’t even take it seriously because he is not going to win — it’s not going to happen.”