 IOWA FALLS, Iowa — Carrie Aldrich, 46, wept Monday as she told Senator Bernie Sanders and 200 other people about her struggles cycling though minimum-wage jobs, fighting to get disability checks for a joint disorder, and having to rely on her elderly parents for survival. “It’s so hard to do anything to pay your bills,” Ms. Aldrich, of Alden, Iowa, said at a town-hall-style meeting hosted by Mr. Sanders. “You are ashamed all the time.” “It’s really, really hard,” she added. “I worked three, four, five jobs sometimes — always minimum wage. I have a degree. I’m divorced. I’ve been waiting for disability to come through, so my parents have to support me. It’s just hard.” Mr. Sanders often gives hour-long stump speeches and takes questions afterward. On Monday, however, the Vermont senator spent some 45 minutes asking people to describe relying on Social Security checks, paying for increasingly expensive medicine, and what it’s like to live on minimum-wage work. The responses he received were particularly emotional. One person said a doctor had suggested getting a diabetic dog because the animal’s insulin would cost less than insulin designed for humans. One man said his medication for his diabetes went from costing $3.25 a month to more than $600 in the last few decades. Anne Gordon, 65, who retired from her job a plastics factory, told Mr. Sanders that she lived on less than $10,000 a year because she didn’t have a pension. Mr. Sanders asked her to describe what living on so little money meant. “Well, you don’t go out,” Ms. Gordon, of Iowa Falls, said. “You don’t buy any shoes. You wear shoes for three or four years. You don’t buy presents for your grandsons.” But of all the stories, Ms. Aldrich’s was the most gut-wrenching because she cried, sometimes uncontrollably, as she laid out her troubles. Mr. Sanders, meanwhile, told those gathered that Mrs. Aldrich’s story was emblematic of the struggles of many. “It is not easy for people to stand up and say that,” Mr. Sanders said in response to Ms. Aldrich’s remarks. “But the truth is, until millions of people who are experiencing exactly what you guys are experiencing do say that, we don’t make change. So I thank you for saying that and for telling us what is going on in your life because the truth is you can’t make it on $12,000. You can’t live dignity on $10,000 or less.” After the event, Ms. Aldrich said she felt like Mr. Sanders’s response was a genuine one that illustrated that he cares for struggling Americans like herself.  She said she didn’t trust Hillary Clinton because she believed that Mrs. Clinton was too tied to big corporations and Wall Street. Ms. Aldrich said she had worked as a home health aide and a bartender, but stopped working six months ago. Four years ago, she started having health problems related to a joint disease and possibly multiple sclerosis. She has been trying to get on disability but said she had been denied the benefit and was appealing. Ms. Aldrich said she made only $5,000 last year but still managed to donate $15 to Mr. Sanders’s campaign. She used to make about $20,000 a year but now relies heavily on her parents, who are both 69, as well as on the $189 she receives each month in food stamps. Ms. Aldrich, who has now seen Mr. Sanders in person twice, said she had chosen to share her story because she believed that many others are also facing similar problems and that Mr. Sanders would help them. “I love Bernie,” Ms. Aldrich said, her face still wet from tears. “He is for the common person.”