 Donald J. Trump now has a “Ted” in his life … a Ted he actually likes.  Mr. Trump, the Republican presidential front-runner, became a grandfather for an eighth time on Sunday when his daughter, Ivanka, gave birth to her third child. She and her husband, Jared Kushner, named the boy Theodore. Ms. Trump sent out the news of the baby’s arrival on Twitter late Sunday.  — Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) March 28, 2016  In an appearance on “Fox and Friends” on Monday, Mr. Trump joked with the hosts that he wouldn’t get into the “details” of the birth, but pointed out that Theodore James Kushner had arrived “on Easter, so we have an Easter baby, which is beautiful,” Mr. Trump said.  Ms. Trump, even while many months pregnant, was a frequent presence by her father’s side this year in places like Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina during voting contests in those states. Mr. Trump mentioned at countless rallies about how his daughter was about to give birth at any moment, and how great it would be if it happened in whatever state he was in at that moment. Last week, in a speech at the American Israel Public Affairs Conference, Mr. Trump said his daughter, who converted to Judaism, was about to have a “beautiful Jewish baby.”  Mr. Trump, who has been in a fierce battle — which has gotten personal — with Senator Ted Cruz for the Republican presidential nomination, has seven other grandchildren; Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner have another son and a daughter, and Donald J. Trump Jr. and his wife, Vanessa, have five children.  Ms. Trump was not the only political daughter who’s pregnant during the campaign season. Chelsea Clinton, the daughter of Bill and Hillary Clinton, is pregnant with her second child. Mrs. Clinton often talks about being a grandmother on the campaign trail.  Within hours, the Trump Organization scooped up three website name combinations with the newest Kushner baby’s name, according to records from the cyberforensics company DomainTools.  Steve Eder contributed reporting.