 A New York Times/CBS News poll published last week revealed deep divisions in the Republican Party not only over potential presidential nominees but also over the federal budget, immigration and whether Republicans in Congress should compromise to get things done or dig in their heels over matters of principle. Drilling down a little deeper into the survey results produces an even finer-grained picture of the different strains of the current G.O.P. For the first time, the poll asked the public whether they considered the federal government mostly a protector of their life and liberty or mostly a threat to their life and liberty. In the overall sample of 1,289 adults, 53 percent said they considered government a protector and 33 percent called it a threat. But among 575 likely Republican primary voters, 53 percent said government was a threat to their liberties and 42 percent said it was a protector. The difference is even starker among Republicans who described themselves as conservative —  59 percent called government a threat to liberties. Among those Republican primary voters who called themselves very conservative or Tea Party supporters (many are both), fully two-thirds said they looked upon the federal government as a threat to their life and liberty. Similar divides can be found in the answers to a question about how concerned people are about the federal government’s interfering with the free exercise of religion. Among all American adults, 56 percent said they were very concerned or somewhat concerned about government meddling in religious liberty. But more than three-quarters (76 percent) of Republican primary voters expressed concern. And eighty-four percent of Tea Party supporters and 91 percent Republican evangelical Christians said they shared that concern. Republicans also have sharply different views from other Americans about the wisdom of letting teachers and school officials carry guns in schools. Thirty-eight percent of American adults said they favored such a policy while 57 percent opposed it. But Republican primary voters strongly favored allowing guns in school, by 65 to 32 percent. Four in five Tea Party supporters said they would like to see more guns in schools, as would more than seven in 10 Republican evangelicals. The full poll results can be found here; a note on the methodology is here. John M. Broder and Megan Thee-Brenan are members of The Times’s news surveys department. This is one of an occasional series of posts taking a deeper look at polling during this campaign cycle.  