 News of the diplomatic thaw with Iran provided the Republican presidential candidates with more fodder to attack both President Obama and Hillary Clinton over the weekend on the campaign trail and on Sunday talk shows. On Saturday, the United States announced that, in compliance with the Iran nuclear deal, it was along with European nations releasing roughly $100 billion in Iranian assets, as well as lifting oil and financial sanctions on Iran. Iran released five American prisoners, including a reporter for The Washington Post, in exchange for the release of seven Iranians. Republicans were quick to portray the exchange as a sign of weakness, a sentiment they continued to express Sunday in television interviews, while the Democratic candidates took a tone of cautious optimism about the developments. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, appearing on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” said that the freed Americans were not prisoners, saying they had violated no laws and instead were being held as “hostages.” He also expressed concern that the exchange created a bad precedent. “The President has pardoned them in exchange for a release of hostages,” he said. “It proves once again that now nations and enemies of America around the world know there’s a price for Americans.” Mr. Rubio also criticized the way Iran had handled an incident involving American sailors whose boats had drifted into Iranian territorial waters in the Persian Gulf, leading to the crafts’ seizure by Iran. Though Iran quickly released the Americans, Mr. Rubio said that the way the country treated the sailors while in captivity — putting them on their knees, making the female sailor wear a burqa, releasing video of them in captivity — was “a huge propaganda score.” “They’re not our allies,” Mr. Rubio said. “They’re not our friends.” On the same program, Gov. John Kasich of Ohio similarly said, “I’m sort of sick to my stomach about it,” referring to the Iranian nuclear deal. Speaking on “Fox News Sunday,” Senator Ted Cruz of Texas said he was grateful for the release of the Americans — “Praise God that the prisoners are coming home,” he said — but was critical of how the administration handled the exchange, saying it set a “dangerous precedent.” “This deal is a problematic deal,” Mr. Cruz said, “and it reflects a pattern we have seen in the Obama administration over and over again of negotiating with terrorists, and making deals and trades that endanger U.S. safety and security. The result of this — every bad actor on earth has been told go capture an American. If you want terrorists out of the jail, capture an American and President Obama is in the let’s make a deal business.” Donald J. Trump, on ABC’s “This Week,” refused to give Mr. Obama credit for the prisoner exchange. “I said that if I got in, it would happen immediately,” he said. Mr. Trump went on to say that the agreement would not have been up to his standards. “This should have happened years ago,” he said. “We’re giving them $150 billion. This shouldn’t be happening now. And I understand that in addition to the $150 billion, they’re getting hostages, also, or they’re getting some prisoners released.” The Democratic candidates offered a different message. Mrs. Clinton, a former secretary of state under Mr. Obama, said she believed Iran was less of a threat after the nuclear deal and that the prisoner exchange and the broader Iran agreement were “mutually reinforcing.” “I have said for a long time that I’m very proud of the role that I played in getting us to the point where we could negotiate the agreement that puts a lid on Iran’s nuclear weapons program,” she said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “But I’ve also said that the way we’re going to hold them accountable is to have consequences when they do anything that might deviate from the agreement or continue to flout the kind of sanctions and mandates that the U.N. Secretary Council has put on, including on missiles,” she added. On the same show, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont offered praise for both the nuclear deal and the prisoner exchange. “Clearly, we have many, many issues and many concerns with Iran,” Mr. Sanders said. “But, clearly, also, we want to improve our relationships with this very powerful country. I think the agreement to make certain that Iran does not get a nuclear weapon was a huge step forward. The fact that we had this prisoner release today was a good, important step forward.” On “Face the Nation,” Mrs. Clinton dismissed the Republican concerns as “just typical political rhetoric.” “The real issue here is, if you’re committed to making the world safer and to show strong American leadership, you have to engage in patient persistent diplomacy with people who are not your friends,” she said. “So I’m proud of the role that played in the Iranian agreement and I’m delighted that Americans are coming home safe from Iran.” Heading into the Democratic debate Sunday night, Mr. Sanders also cleared up an issue that Mrs. Clinton’s allies had raised on the campaign trail by saying he planned to release his medical records. “Thank God, I am very healthy,” Mr. Sanders said on CNN’s “State of the Union.” “We will get our medical records out the same way that Secretary Clinton has gotten her records out. It is not a problem.” And coming out of the most recent Republican debate, where Mr. Trump and Mr. Cruz went after one another in their most fierce and visceral exchange yet, Mr. Trump continued to criticize his rival. The two lead the Republican field in most polls. “Look, the truth is he’s a nasty guy,” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Cruz on ABC’s “This Week.” “He’s a nasty guy. Nobody likes him. Nobody in Congress likes him. Nobody likes him anywhere once they get to know him.” On “State of the Union,” Mr. Trump offered a similarly personal attack, calling Mr. Cruz “strident, and not a nice person.”