 Haim Saban, a Hollywood mogul and Israel hawk who is one of Hillary Rodham Clinton’s biggest backers, suggested there should be “more scrutiny” of Muslims in the wake of the terrorist attacks in Paris.  But Mr. Saban, in an interview with the Hollywood news website The Wrap, said he believes the violence can only help Mrs. Clinton, the former secretary of state who enjoys a comfortable lead in polls of the Democratic presidential field. Mr. Saban was blunt about how his colleagues in Hollywood view the national landscape after the terror attacks in France. His remarks were published on the eve of a national security speech that Mrs. Clinton is giving about how to confront the Islamic State and terrorism in general.  “Many members of the Hollywood community are very liberal and they value their civil liberties more than they value life,” Mr. Saban said. “I disagree with that. You want to be free and dead? I’d rather be not free and alive.”  He went on to say that things that are “are unacceptable in times of peace — such as profiling, listening in on anyone and everybody who looks suspicious, or interviewing Muslims in a more intense way than interviewing Christian refugees — is all acceptable” during war. “Why? Because we value life more than our civil liberties and it’s temporary until the problem goes away. But to say this is shameful — I disagree.”  “I’m not suggesting we put Muslims through some kind of a torture room to get them to admit that they are or they’re not terrorists,” Mr. Saban said. “But I am saying we should have more scrutiny.” In a statement emailed by a spokeswoman on Thursday evening, Mr. Saban said that he “misspoke” in the interview.  “I believe that all refugees coming from Syria — a war-torn country that ISIS calls home – regardless of religion require additional scrutiny before entering the United States,” he said in the email.   Saying he was comfortable with additional security measures in the wake of the Paris attacks, he added, “I regret making a religious distinction as opposed to a geographical one: it’s about scrutinizing every single individual coming from a country with ISIS strongholds.” Mr. Saban and his wife, Cheryl, have given $2 million to Priorities USA, the “super PAC” supporting Mrs. Clinton’s candidacy. He has supported her for years, including paying to produce a slick video tribute chronicling her tenure at the State Department as she was set to depart in early 2013.  But even as he bemoaned the loss of a sense of safety, Mr. Saban said that he believes Mrs. Clinton will ultimately benefit politically as a result of the attacks.  “I do think it will help because she’s the only one with the résumé and the most qualified to deal with this,” Mr. Saban said.