 The five remaining presidential candidates will appear at two separate party events in New York City on Thursday night, the last time each group will share a room before the state primary on Tuesday. It is also potentially the last time each party’s candidates will be in the same place before their conventions.  In Manhattan, Donald J. Trump, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio will appear at a black-tie fund-raiser for the state Republican Party. How Mr. Trump will feel about sharing his hometown event with his rivals remains to be seen. But it is the first time they will be together since they decided to abandon the so-called loyalty pledge they signed last year to support whoever becomes the party nominee.  It is also one of the few times that Mr. Trump has appeared at a public campaign event in the five boroughs, where Republican votes are scarce. Mr. Trump is trying to bolster his tally of votes statewide to keep his percentage north of 50 percent so he can claim more delegates.  There is a looming prospect of a thousand protesters outside the dinner, which, if they materialize, could be another disruption that Mr. Trump is forced to contend with.  As for the Democrats, Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont will hold a debate at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, hosted by CNN and NY1. Their contest has become increasingly nasty, although it is genteel compared with the Republicans. But they are clearly sick of each other and tired of hiding it. Mr. Sanders has struggled in New York amid tough questions, and he has been tripped up on issues related to Israel. The borough is home to a large Orthodox Jewish population, a fact that might come up.  Brooklyn is also home to a large African-American population. Mrs. Clinton received a lukewarm response at a National Action Network conference hosted by the Rev. Al Sharpton on Wednesday as she dealt with fallout from a racially hued joke during a skit on Saturday with Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York. 