 Hillary Rodham Clinton is maintaining a strong national lead in the Democratic nominating contest, but voters are increasingly looking at Senator Bernie Sanders and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. as potential alternatives, according to a new poll. A Suffolk University/USA Today survey released on Thursday showed that Mrs. Clinton remains atop the field with the support of 41 percent of likely Democratic voters. Trailing her was Mr. Sanders, with 23 percent, and Mr. Biden with 20 percent. The poll has a margin of error of five percentage points. While Mrs. Clinton’s prospects remain strong, the results show a tighter race than in July, when she dwarfed the competition with 59 percent support.  Continuing questions about her email usage as secretary of state have dented Mrs. Clinton’s popularity, though she has taken steps to repair her image by apologizing for using a private server to conduct official business.  David Paleologos, who directs the Suffolk Poll, said that the questions surrounding Mrs. Clinton appear to have opened the door for Mr. Biden, should he decide to run. His favorability rating is higher than 50 percent and he is the top second choice among Democrats.  “If Sanders were to stumble or if Clinton were to stumble further, he would be better positioned to grow as a comfortable place for Democrats to go that doesn’t have the baggage or the extreme view points for the average general election voter,” Mr. Paleologos said.  Mr. Paleologos noted that while Mrs. Clinton’s handling of the Benghazi attacks and her email account are concerns nationally, Democrats appear to be sticking with her.  But when asked to pick a word that they associated with Mrs. Clinton, questions about her forthrightness emerged. The most common responses were: “liar,” “dishonest,” “untrustworthy” and “fake.” For Mr. Sanders, the most frequent response was “socialist,” and for Mr. Biden it was “favorable” and “like” followed by “honest,” “honorable,””integrity” and “trustworthy.”