 The possible end of the Democratic presidential contest will dominate Tuesday’s voting, but lots of competitive congressional primaries will also be taking place. Much of the attention will be on a race pitting two Republican incumbents in North Carolina against each another. Representative Renee Ellmers is a candidate in a redrawn North Carolina district against a fellow Republican representative, George Holding, whose current district was also moved in the reorganization, leaving him looking for a friendly place to run. Ms. Ellmers, who rode the Tea Party wave into the House in 2010, fell out of favor with the movement because of some of her votes on abortion and spending, and she has been a top target of conservative advocacy groups hoping to unseat her. But she got some late help from Donald J. Trump, who recorded an automated telephone call for her — his first congressional endorsement. With both parties trying to establish their lineups for November, important primaries are taking place in several other states, including California. Attorney General Kamala D. Harris and Representative Loretta Sanchez, both Democrats, could end up competing for California’s open Senate seat because of the state system that puts the top two finishers forward for the general election, regardless of their party affiliation. Four open House seats in California have attracted multiple candidates to replace long-serving Democrats including Lois Capps and Sam Farr. In Iowa, Patty Judge, a former lieutenant governor, is vying against three other Democrats for the right to oppose Senator Charles E. Grassley in November. Democrats recruited Ms. Judge after Senator Grassley, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, refused to consider the nomination of Judge Merrick B. Garland to the Supreme Court. One new member of Congress will be elected on Tuesday. Voters in the Cincinnati-area district represented by John A. Boehner for nearly 25 years before his resignation last fall will vote in a special election to fill the remaining six months of his term. Warren Davidson, a Republican, is the heavy favorite.