 Donald J. Trump released a set of radio ads in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina on Wednesday, seizing on the attacks in Paris as evidence that his brand of leadership is needed to keep America safe. The ads are part of a $300,000 buy that Mr. Trump is making in early nominating states. While some other presidential candidates have said they want to avoid politicizing last Friday’s attacks, Mr. Trump is using them to criticize President Obama. “The tragic attacks in Paris prove once again that America needs to get tough on radical Islamic terrorism,” Mr. Trump said in one of the ads, with haunting music playing in the background. “President Obama and other politicians have consistently failed us.” Mr. Trump also criticized the Obama administration’s policies on refugees and immigration in the ad, and he promised to “bomb the hell out of ISIS.” The radio ads are the second set that Mr. Trump has released this election cycle after receiving months of free publicity on traditional and social media. While Mr. Trump is trying to assume the mantle of being strong on national security, he is also setting his sights on Iowa. In another ad, he features Sam Clovis, a long-time operative in the state who defected from Rick Perry’s campaign to become the national co-chairman for Mr. Trump. “I’ve gotten to know Donald Trump and was so impressed I wanted to be part of this historic effort,” Mr. Clovis said. The support from Mr. Clovis shows how quickly things can change in politics. Last summer, Mr. Perry’s campaign released emails that he had sent regarding Mr. Trump that were less than flattering. Mr. Trump “left me with questions about his moral center and his foundational beliefs,” Mr. Clovis said, according to The Des Moines Register. “His comments reveal no foundation in Christ, which is a big deal.” In the new ad, Mr. Clovis offers his fullest endorsement of the billionaire developer whose candidacy he is trying to sell to Iowans. “I trust him, and that’s the highest praise I can offer,” Mr Clovis said of Mr. Trump.