 As the remaining candidates hunker down to plan their strategies for the new year, we take a moment to remember some of the candidates we lost along the way. Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, July 13 – Sept. 21, 2015 Mr. Walker, saying that “Americans want to vote for something and for someone,” announced his campaign to great fanfare and expectation, riding the national conservative following he found after victories over unions in Wisconsin and an effort to recall him as governor in 2011. After waging an unofficial campaign in the weeks before his announcement, Mr. Walker shifted further right on several issues to bolster his standing in Iowa, where he had a solid base of support and where he had pinned his hopes of victory. But the rise of Donald J. Trump, Ben Carson and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas overtook any momentum he may have had, leaving him with waning donations, sliding in the polls and standing at a lectern to announce his withdrawal and to ask many of his rivals to do the same to unite against Mr. Trump. Rick Perry, June 4 – Sept. 11 Mr. Perry made his second consecutive run at the White House seeking to erase the memories of the first, “a political disaster,” The Times wrote, “that left him humbled and weakened.” His campaign said that lessons had been learned and that he would run on his record as governor of Texas. “When have you led?” Mr. Perry, wearing new glasses and standing beside a C-130, the kind of plane he flew in the Air Force, asked his rivals during his announcement speech. But Mr. Perry never gained enough traction in the polls to move onto the prime-time Republican debate stage, and his campaign bled money fast and stopped paying staff members. He was the first candidate to leave the race. Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, June 1 — Dec. 21 Mr. Graham, who also never made it onto the prime-time debate stage, seemed to base his campaign on two central tenets — that the Islamic State must be defeated “before we all get killed back here at home,” and that he was the funniest guy in the room. Mr. Graham, who said that the first change he would make as president would be that “we’re going to drink more,” often stood out in the so-called undercard debates for this seeming contrast in tone between his warnings about terrorism and his quick wit. Here is a taste: At the December debate: “There must be American boots on the ground in Syria to win — if you don’t understand that, you’re not fit to be commander in chief.” And, in the September debate, defending his calls for comprehensive immigration overhaul in the face of a dwindling work force: “Strom Thurmond had four kids after age 67. If you’re not willing to do that, we need to come up with a new immigration system.” Mr. Graham announced his withdrawal last week. Jim Webb, July 2 — Oct. 20, and Lincoln Chafee, June 3 – Oct. 23 Hillary Clinton’s name recognition and the surprise insurgency of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont left no room for Mr. Webb, a former senator from Virginia, and Mr. Chafee, a former senator and governor from Rhode Island, to do anything but appear at the first Democratic debate. They each left the race soon after, though Mr. Webb has raised the possibility of an independent campaign. Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana and former Gov. George E. Pataki of New York, who announced his withdrawal on Tuesday night, round out the list of current and former governors who expected to make more of their executive experience. Now, the sprawling Republican field has been cut down to 12, and the Democrats to three. Barring any last-minute surprises, the next candidates to fall will have to wait until the next year in review for their memoriam.