 WASHINGTON, N.H. — Senator Ted Cruz of Texas knows about Ronald Reagan. Ronald Reagan is a hero of his. And Donald J. Trump, he says, is no Ronald Reagan. As Mr. Trump has faced growing scrutiny for supporting some liberal causes over the years, he has said that Mr. Reagan, too, experienced a political evolution in his time. Mr. Cruz on Monday offered a point-by-point rebuttal, sharpening an increasingly aggressive set of attacks aimed at what he says are the real estate mogul’s shape-shifting views. “I will note that Ronald Reagan spent decades as a principled conservative,” Mr. Cruz told reporters before a town-hall-style event here. “Ronald Reagan did not spend the first 60 years of his life supporting Democratic politicians.” Mr. Cruz proceeded to offer a few names of people Mr. Trump had donated to — including Andrew Cuomo, Hillary Clinton, Anthony Weiner and Rahm Emanuel. And he noted that Mr. Trump’s fidelity to some liberal leaders continued after the rise of the Tea Party movement.  “I understand that every Republican candidate tries to compare themselves to Reagan,” Mr. Cruz said. “At the end of the day, the American people are going to assess who’s telling the truth.” Mr. Cruz, who spent months diligently praising Mr. Trump, has quickly and decisively changed course. (Mr. Trump was the first to escalate hostilities in earnest, raising questions about Mr. Cruz’s eligibility for the presidency because of his Canadian birth.) In recent days, Mr. Cruz has also taken care to depict Mr. Trump as unsteady — distracted by polls and social media. “We need a leader who is prepared to do whatever is needed to keep this country safe,” Mr. Cruz said Monday, “and that typically doesn’t include spending your time on Twitter.” Earlier in the day, Mr. Cruz spent time on the site himself. In response to Mr. Trump’s appraisal of him as a “nasty guy,” Mr. Cruz posted the music video from the Janet Jackson song, “Nasty,” along with a Twitter message saying that is how Americans feel about Washington.