 Updated, 1:36 p.m. | DES MOINES – Senator Ted Cruz, scrambling to put down a growing threat in Iowa from Senator Marco Rubio, is shifting nearly all of his negative advertising from Donald J. Trump to Mr. Rubio for the final three days of the caucuses. Mr. Cruz intends to direct his firepower at his Senate colleague after days of seeing Mr. Rubio inch up both in public polling and his own private surveys, according to two advisers to Mr. Cruz who spoke on the condition of anonymity.  After leading in the polls in Iowa for much of the last month, Mr. Cruz has slipped into second behind Mr. Trump in most public surveys. The change of direction is an abrupt shift, reflecting how volatile the race in Iowa remains: Mr. Cruz’s campaign only began airing negative spots against Mr. Trump this week and just put their first attack ad up against Mr. Rubio on Thursday on Iowa television.  Mr. Cruz will continue to air two positive ads about himself in the race’s closing days, including a testimonial from Representative Steve King of Iowa.  But his campaign is increasingly concerned about Mr. Rubio creeping up to 20 percent in the caucuses and finishing close to the two dominant candidates here.     The assault on Mr. Rubio will center on his leadership in the 2013 Senate push to pass a comprehensive immigration overhaul, which included what many conservatives call “amnesty” for undocumented immigrants. “If that’s one of the issues we’re talking about heading into Monday that’s a good thing,” said a senior adviser to Mr. Cruz. — Ted Cruz (@tedcruz) January 28, 2016  Speaking to voters in Ringsted, Iowa, on Friday, Mr. Cruz, with no prompting, went on the attack against Mr. Rubio. Conservatives are “tired of being burned by politicians who claim to be against amnesty” before changing course, he said. “Marco Rubio has gone on Univision and said in Spanish, ‘No, no, no, I wouldn’t rescind amnesty,'” Mr. Cruz recalled. Mr. Cruz’s move comes after he was seen as not fully taking advantage of Mr. Trump’s absence at Thursday’s debate and suffering a series of blows from the moderators and his rivals. The Des Moines Register headline on Friday was “Rough Night for Cruz.”  The Texas senator’s strategists argue that, with a group of “super PACs” now airing negative ads in Iowa on Mr. Trump, they do not have to focus as much on the front-runner.  They say there are less Iowa voters picking between Mr. Cruz and Mr. Rubio than Mr. Cruz and Mr. Trump, but another aide to the Texas senator said they have “more to gain” by denying Mr. Rubio these undecided caucusgoers. Driving this viewpoint: An anxiety that, even if Mr. Cruz wins on Monday, an unexpectedly strong performance by Mr. Rubio may offer him a burst of favorable publicity going into New Hampshire’s Feb. 9 primary that could overshadow Mr. Cruz’s showing here.