 Hillary Clinton has called for a federal investigation into the death of Laquan McDonald, a black teenager killed by a white Chicago police officer, putting her at odds with Mayor Rahm Emanuel, a former aide to Bill Clinton who is embroiled in controversy over the handling of the 17-year-old’s death. “Hillary Clinton is deeply troubled by the shooting of Laquan McDonald and the outstanding questions related to both the shooting and the video,” Brian Fallon, a spokesman for the Clinton campaign, said in a statement. “Mayor Emanuel’s call for a task force to review practices of the Chicago Police Department is an important step,” he said. “But given the gravity of this tragic situation,” he added, Mrs. Clinton supports the request made by Attorney General Lisa Madigan of Illinois, for a Justice Department review. Mrs. Clinton has made criminal justice reform a central part of her presidential campaign. On her last visit to Chicago, she met with the mothers of Trayvon Martin, Michael Brown, Tamir Rice and other black men who had been killed by police officers or in gun violence. “We have allowed our criminal justice system to get out of balance,” Mrs. Clinton has often said. She had faced mounting pressure from Black Lives Matter activists to speak forcefully about Mr. McDonald’s death.  The recently released video of Mr. McDonald being shot 16 times by a police officer in October of last year has sparked outrage and led activists and others to call for the resignations of Mr. Emanuel and Garry McCarthy, the Chicago Police superintendent. Mr. Emanuel, who was seeking re-election when the shooting occurred, has said the video was not immediately released because of concerns it could have tainted a federal and state investigation.  Mr. Fallon said Mrs. Clinton did not call for Mr. Emanuel’s resignation. “She knows Mayor Emanuel loves Chicago, and is sure he wants to do all he can to restore trust in the Chicago Police Department,” he said. At a news conference, Mr. Emanuel said he expected Mrs. Clinton to be supportive. The Chicago Tribune published early reports on Mrs. Clinton’s call for a federal investigation.