 Hillary Clinton received a surge of support after the Democratic National Convention, according to a new national poll that showed her opening a lead against Donald J. Trump with fewer than 100 days to go before the presidential election. The CBS News survey released on Monday shows 46 percent of registered voters backing Mrs. Clinton and 39 percent supporting Mr. Trump, the Republican nominee. That represents a four-percentage-point bounce for Mrs. Clinton, who was deadlocked with Mr. Trump after the Republican convention, which gave Mr. Trump a two-point increase. When Gary Johnson, the Libertarian Party’s nominee, is added to the mix he receives 10 percent of the vote and Mrs. Clinton holds a five-point lead. The CBS poll found that the Democratic convention improved Mrs. Clinton’s favorability rating and her standing with female voters, a group that was already strongly in her corner. She continues to trail Mr. Trump with men and white voters who do not have college degrees. Mrs. Clinton’s post-convention bounce was in line with the upticks that President Obama received in 2008 and 2012. It was smaller than the 13-point increase that her husband, former President Bill Clinton, saw in 1992 or the 10-point bounce that Al Gore got in 2000. Post-convention bounces have been decreasing in recent years as the electorate has become more polarized. Despite some protests from backers of Senator Bernie Sanders, the Democratic convention was widely praised for being well-choreographed, with splashy musical performances and high-profile speeches from Mr. Obama, Michelle Obama, Mr. Clinton and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. Mrs. Clinton made headway in uniting the party, according to the CBS poll, with improved support from liberals and those who were hoping that Mr. Sanders would be the Democratic Party’s nominee. Earlier in July, two-thirds of Mr. Sanders’s supporters said they would vote for Mrs. Clinton. After the convention, however, 73 percent said that they supported her. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points.