 Donald J. Trump’s recent rough patch has taken a toll on his standing in three crucial swing states, according to a new poll that shows voters in Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania viewing Hillary Clinton as being better prepared to be president. A survey from Quinnipiac University found Mrs. Clinton leading Mr. Trump by a margin of 47 percent to 39 percent in Florida, where they were essentially tied in May. Mrs. Clinton also erased Mr. Trump’s narrow lead in Ohio, where the candidates are now deadlocked at 40 percent. In Pennsylvania, Mrs. Clinton leads by a single percentage point. The polls had margins of error of plus or minus three percentage points, rendering Ohio and Pennsylvania very much up for grabs a month before Republicans hold their nominating convention July 18-21 in Cleveland. Many leading Republicans have struggled to embrace Mr. Trump so far and there are signs that the discord is doing damage. Peter Brown, assistant director of the Quinnipiac Poll, said that the lingering infighting within the Republican Party was hurting Mr. Trump’s standing and that political parties usually show more loyalty toward their standard-bearers. “The at-times bitter verbal battles between Trump and some Republicans leaders is showing in these numbers,” Mr. Brown said. “In these three key states, Clinton is doing better, and in the case of Florida much better, among Democrats than Trump is among Republicans.” In all three states, Mrs. Clinton is viewed as being more ready to be president, being smarter and having higher moral standards. Voters think that Mr. Trump would be better at creating jobs and at combating terrorism. Mr. Brown suggested that Mr. Trump’s problems in Florida could be because of his provocative proposals and comments about Hispanics and immigration. “It is Hillary Clinton’s best state and perhaps Donald Trump’s toughest lift,” Mr. Brown said of Florida. “One reason might be Florida has a larger Hispanic population than the other two states, and Trump has clashed with Hispanic leaders over some of his remarks.” Most recently, Mr. Trump faced criticism for attacking the Mexican-American judge who is overseeing the Trump University fraud case, arguing that his Hispanic heritage made him biased. Nearly 60 percent of voters in the three states considered this assertion to be racist. On Tuesday, Mr. Trump promoted the polls as evidence that his campaign remains on track after all of the negative publicity he has received in the last few weeks. “To be even in these major states, people are talking about it, they can’t believe it,” Mr. Trump said on Fox News. “Which tells you how bad she is, or hopefully how good I am.”