 With only six days left in the presidential race, Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump are working overtime to turn out voters, but their power to shift the direction of the race diminishes every day. Both campaigns still have important decisions to make as they fine-tune their approaches — decisions that could affect who wins, and also how that person wins and how the victory is interpreted. Some of the key dynamics we are watching in a race that will undoubtedly twist and turn to the end: Donald J. Trump raised $100 million in small donations in October, his campaign announced on Thursday. But Mr. Trump’s announcement — made in a news release sent to reporters late in the afternoon — contained few other details, and his figures cannot be independently verified until after Election Day, when the winning and losing campaigns file their next financial disclosures with the Federal Election Commission. Mr. Trump’s tally appeared to include money raised into party accounts he jointly controls, but did not specify what threshold he used for “small” donations, and a spokeswoman did not immediately reply to a request for clarification. The release did not specify whether the total represented any money that was raised earlier in the year but was only recently transferred into his campaign accounts. The Trump team’s last official F.E.C. report was filed last week and covered the first 19 days of October. Using a conventional measure of small donations — checks from people giving less than $200 — Mr. Trump would have had to raise about $65 million from small contributions during the remaining days in October, effectively tripling his clip with these donors. That would be a huge jump. But it is also possible that Mr. Trump is including contributions of more than $200 in his tally, since he has been collecting relatively few large checks. If Mr. Trump’s figure included all the money raised in the first part of October, then he would have had to raise $40 million to reach $100 million by the end of the month. That would leave him at more or less on the same pace as earlier in the month — and only a slightly faster clip than in September. In a statement accompanying Mr. Trump’s news release, his digital director, Brad Parscale, said: “Hitting a 100 million dollar goal in October is an amazing milestone for the campaign as it shows how Mr. Trump’s message is resonating with millions of voters across the country.” The killing of two police officers in the Des Moines area has caused the Clinton campaign to change its schedule. Tim Kaine, former President Bill Clinton and the singer Ben Harper were planning a get-out-the vote performance at the Des Moines Social Club on Wednesday night, but the event was scrapped because of the tragedy. Mr. Trump, who has in the past used attacks on police to amplify his “law and order” message, offered a measured response and said that he was praying for the families of the officers. “An attack on those who keep us safe is an attack on all of us,” Mr. Trump wrote in a post on Twitter. For Mr. Trump, the difference between trailing Mrs. Clinton by a little and trailing by a lot has often been the strength of his backing from other Republicans. Campaigning on a set of themes unlike any other recent Republican nominee, Mr. Trump has occasionally fallen behind by landslide margins when conservative-leaning voters shifted away from him. Shunned by many party leaders, Mr. Trump is plainly still working to rally Republicans: His running mate, Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, has been publicly pleading with partisans to “come home” to their presidential ticket. Mr. Pence is campaigning in Arizona on Wednesday, a traditionally conservative state where Mr. Trump has struggled. Republican support alone cannot make Mr. Trump the next president. But only by improving and cementing his support on the right can Mr. Trump get close to Mrs. Clinton on Election Day and leave a lasting mark on the party he has helmed since spring. Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Trump are largely battling over a handful of big swing states: Ohio, Florida, North Carolina and Pennsylvania. But both are also traveling outside the traditional map this week and throwing money at television commercials in unexpected places. Mrs. Clinton was in Arizona on Wednesday, seeking to exploit Mr. Trump’s weakness with Hispanic voters and suburban whites. Mr. Trump visited Michigan and New Mexico earlier in the week, trying to find new paths to victory in the Electoral College, where Mrs. Clinton holds a considerable advantage. But he returned to conventional turf on Wednesday, with three stops in Florida on his schedule. While Democrats express confidence that they can repel Mr. Trump’s forays, they are leaving little to chance: Mrs. Clinton now plans to visit Detroit on Friday. If Mr. Trump finds his path forward continually frustrated, could he add another long-shot state or two? Although Gary Johnson, the Libertarian Party nominee, has been dropping in most polls since he was left out of the presidential debates, the ticket could still have an impact in a close race, given its popularity in states such as New Mexico and Colorado. Confusing the matter is the fact that William F. Weld, the party’s vice-presidential nominee, essentially endorsed Mrs. Clinton in an interview with MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow on Tuesday night. “Well I’m here vouching for Mrs. Clinton and I think it’s high time somebody did and I’m doing it based on my personal experience with her and I think she deserves to have people vouch for her,” Mr. Weld said when asked if his loyalty to the Libertarian Party was stronger than his fear of a Trump presidency. Mr. Weld, a former Republican governor of Massachusetts, acknowledged that he and Mr. Johnson have many policy disagreements and that they no longer have a chance to win the presidency this year. For his part, Mr. Johnson has kept up his attacks on Mrs. Clinton and in a debate with Jill Stein, the Green Party nominee, he suggested that she would be “engaged in the impeachment process” on day one if elected. With his fired-up return to the trail on Tuesday, Mr. Obama showed again why he is Mrs. Clinton’s most valuable surrogate. He is the most popular person in national politics and perhaps uniquely effective at reaching black voters and young people at a moment when Democrats are anxious about turnout. That makes him a powerful asset to Mrs. Clinton in a state like North Carolina, where he campaigned on Wednesday. “I hate to put pressure on you, but the fate of the republic rests on your shoulders,” Mr. Obama said at rally in North Carolina. She has largely been absent since the Republican convention in July, but Ms. Trump will make an appearance on behalf of her husband in suburban Philadelphia on Thursday. According to the campaign, Ms. Trump will “address the American people to get out the vote and share what a Trump Administration’s vision would be like for American women, children and families” at the event at the Main Line Sports Center in Berwyn. Ms. Trump has maintained that she has kept a low profile so that she can focus on raising her young child, but the campaign hinted that she would help her husband make his final pitch to voters.