 Updated, 3:29 p.m. | Tension flared in the race for the Democratic presidential nomination Thursday, with the candidates questioning each other’s fitness to lead and Senator Bernie Sanders pressing his attack that Hillary Clinton is not qualified to be president. After weeks of subtle sniping, the frustration first boiled over at a rally in Philadelphia on Wednesday night when Mr. Sanders took issue with recent criticism over his understanding of financial regulation policy and assailed Mrs. Clinton from multiple angles. And he intensified the attacks Thursday, saying of Mrs. Clinton, “People might wonder about your qualifications when you supported virtually every trade agreement, trade agreements which have cost the American worker millions of decent paying jobs.” The attacks represent a sharpening of Mr. Sanders’s tone as he comes off a string of six straight victories but heads into a more daunting challenge in Mrs. Clinton’s home state, New York, where polls show him lagging behind and he faces tough scrutiny from New York City’s unforgiving tabloids. At the Philadelphia rally Wednesday night, he first raised the issue of Mrs. Clinton not being qualified to lead the country, citing donations to the “super PAC” supporting her. “She has been saying lately that she thinks that I am, quote-un-quote, not qualified to be president,” Mr. Sanders said. “Let me just say in response to Secretary Clinton, I don’t believe that she is qualified if she is, through her super PAC, taking tens of millions of dollars in special interest funds.” He added: “I don’t think you are qualified if you have voted for the disastrous war in Iraq. I don’t think you are qualified if you supported the Panama free trade agreement.” Mrs. Clinton, who did not explicitly say that Mr. Sanders was not qualified to be president, said on Wednesday that he had not done his “homework” when it comes to Wall Street reform — his signature campaign issue. Mr. Sanders has been hit for offering vague responses to questions on the subject during an interview in New York with The Daily News’s editorial board this week. The Clinton campaign pushed back against Mr. Sanders’s attack on her qualifications, calling it the mark of a desperate candidate. Brian Fallon, a spokesman for Mrs. Clinton, called on the Vermont senator to take back his words and said he had reached a “new low.” — Brian Fallon (@brianefallon) April 7, 2016  Prominent surrogates for Mrs. Clinton such as Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York and Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri vouched for her qualifications and warned that Mr. Sanders was crossing the line. “Calling Hillary Clinton not qualified is like fingernails on a black board to many women across this country, and I think Bernie probably knows that,” Ms. McCaskill told MSNBC on Thursday. Jeff Weaver, Mr. Sanders’s campaign manager, defended the more pointed approach, noting that Mr. Sanders, who grew up in Brooklyn, was ready for a New York-style “rough and tumble” campaign if that was what Mrs. Clinton wanted. However, Mr. Weaver warned that Mrs. Clinton risked alienating Mr. Sanders’s supporters and creating a fissure within the Democratic Party if she treated the senator unfairly. “To sort of gratuitously attack Bernie Sanders, I think, is a very dangerous move for the Clinton campaign,” Mr. Weaver said in a separate interview on MSNBC. Mr. Sanders showed no sign of backing down at a news conference in Philadelphia on Thursday morning. While saying that he does respect Mrs. Clinton, he continued to express doubts about her qualifications and made clear that he does not intend to hold back. “If Secretary Clinton thinks that I just come from a small state of Vermont, ‘They are not used to this.’ Well, we will get used to it fast,” Mr. Sanders said. “I’m not going to get beaten up. I’m not going to get lied about. We will fight back.” As her campaign sent out fund-raising pitches highlighting Mr. Sanders’s remarks, Mrs. Clinton tried to make light of the dispute as she rode the subway uptown to 170th Street in New York City on Thursday morning. “Well, it’s kind of a silly thing to say,” Mrs. Clinton said. “But I’m going to trust the voters of New York who know me and have voted for me three times.” And in a halfhearted endorsement of Mr. Sanders’s qualifications to be president, Mrs. Clinton added that he was better than the Republicans who are running. “I don’t know why he’s saying that, but I will take Bernie Sanders over Donald Trump or Ted Cruz any time,” she said. Amy Chozick contributed reporting.