 Donald J. Trump is holding a commanding lead in Florida and faces a tight race in Ohio, according to new polls released ahead of Tuesday’s pivotal primary races. Surveys from Quinnipiac University show Mr. Trump more than doubling up Senator Marco Rubio of Florida in his home state. Of likely Republican voters, 46 percent support Mr. Trump and 22 percent back Mr. Rubio. Trailing them are Senator Ted Cruz, with 14 percent, and Gov. John Kasich, with 10 percent. Such an outcome could spell trouble for Mr. Rubio, who has vowed to win Florida and could face calls to leave the race if he fails to do so. “Senator Marco Rubio, who has staked his future on wining his home state, looks like he’ll soon be toast,” said Peter Brown, assistant director of the Quinnipiac University poll. While Mr. Trump is the clear favorite in Florida, the race for Ohio is very much up for grabs. The Manhattan businessman is virtually tied with Mr. Kasich in his home state, with both holding support of 38 percent of likely Republican voters. Behind them in the Buckeye State are Mr. Cruz with 16 percent and Mr. Rubio with 3 percent. The states are two big prizes on a Primary Day that also includes elections in Illinois, Missouri and North Carolina. Candidates who are lagging in the polls are clinging to hopes that they are wrong, as they were in Michigan’s Democratic race last week. The Democratic races in Florida and Ohio look similar to those on the Republican side, with Hillary Clinton holding a big lead in Florida over Senator Bernie Sanders, while the race in Ohio remains close. In Florida, Mrs. Clinton leads Mr. Sanders by a margin of 60 percent to 34 percent. Women and more moderate voters strongly support the former secretary of state, while men and very liberal voters are heavily behind the Vermont senator. Ohio remains Mr. Sanders’s best hope for an upset and an opportunity to keep the race for the Democratic nomination competitive. Of likely Democratic voters, 51 percent support Mrs. Clinton and 46 percent are pulling for Mr. Sanders. “Sanders has the momentum, but the question is whether he can win as he did in Michigan or just come close as in Iowa,” Mr. Brown said. The polls have margins of error of plus or minus four percentage points.