 Donald J. Trump condemned the terrorist attacks in Belgium in television interviews on Tuesday, reiterating his call for a moratorium on foreign Muslim immigrants entering the United States, advocating expanding international laws to allow forms of torture and bluntly predicting, “This is going to happen in the United States.” On Fox News, Mr. Trump said, “This is a story that seems to be more and more happening.” He described Brussels, even before the attacks, as “an armed camp,” although he did not elaborate on what he was referring to and wasn’t pressed. Without specifically saying he was referring to them, Mr. Trump intimated that Muslims are “not assimilating” in an interview on CBS News. And he faulted others “in the community” for not identifying, and reporting, prospective terrorists. In that same interview, Mr. Trump said he would be speaking again later in the day with his foreign policy advisers. But “if they don’t advise me to be very strong, and very tough, at the borders, then I’m probably not a fan of that particular person.”  The CBS News anchors pressed Mr. Trump about whether he was calling for a form of racial profiling, as he repeatedly suggested the attackers have come from Muslim-heavy countries. Pointing to the shooters in the Paris terrorist attacks last fall, Mr. Trump said, “They weren’t exactly from Sweden that did the shootings.” On the “Today” show on NBC, Mr. Trump, who has been criticized for such statements in the past and has tried to clarify his views on torture before, said that he would favor methods such as waterboarding to extract information from suspects believed to be involved in attacks. “If it was up to me and if we changed the laws and have the laws, waterboarding would be fine,” Mr. Trump said. “If they could expand the laws I would do a lot more than waterboarding.” He questioned how some people photographed migrating from Syria to Europe were seen holding cellphones, and wondered who paid those bills. “There’s no assimilation. They are not assimilating and they are not assimilating in other locations, either,” Mr. Trump said. “They want to go by Sharia law. They don’t want laws that we have. They want Sharia law.  And you know you say to yourself, at what point how much of this do you take?” Belgian officials have said little about who perpetrated the attacks and how many people were involved. But Mr. Trump, pushed by the Fox News anchors to question whether people who had ascribed racism to his proposed Muslim ban were wrong, called for tighter borders with regard to Muslim immigrants. “You have to be very vigilant as to who you have and where you’re coming from,” Mr. Trump said, adding, “The assimilation is very, very difficult and, in some cases, impossible.” Muslims, he said, “have to become part of the community.” The twin attacks came several hours before two Republican nominating contests in the presidential race to succeed President Obama. Mr. Trump’s calls for tighter borders helped propel him to the top of a divided and crowded Republican field over the last several months. Mr. Trump, on Fox News, said that things are “not gonna change. It’s not gonna get better.”  His message to the United States, he said, is “we better get smart and we better get smart fast.” As president, he added, he would give a “pep talk” to rally spirit after such a dangerous moment. 