 Senator Ted Cruz of Texas went to Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, on Thursday afternoon to make some matzo — the unleavened bread central to the Passover holiday later this month. The site: Chabad Neshama Center, which shares a block of Ocean Parkway with a chiropractor, a dentist, a pediatrician and an ophthalmologist named Dr. Mitchell S. Seidman. The center includes a preschool (“for more info, call Shula,” reads a sign out front) and a “Model Matzah Bakery” that serves about 2,000 children, according to an administrator, while teaching them about Passover. “The experience of the exodus of Egypt is felt in a very real, exciting and educational way,” the center’s website says. Mr. Cruz arrived around 4:35 p.m., walking upstairs to the bakery, where about a dozen children and several adults from the Hasidic Jewish community waited. The room included a painting of the Egyptian pyramids, a mélange of wooden blocks on the floor, a collection of fish-themed balloons and two New York City police officers standing guard. Two stations were assembled, labeled “flour” and “water,” as an adult kneaded the dough. The children, mostly 3 and 4 years old, wore paper chef’s hats. One of the hosts wore a “Danger: Men Cooking” apron. “How do we make matzo?” Leah Winner, the youth program director, asked the youngsters. “We just get some cheese and some ketchup?” “NOOO,” they replied in unison, and soon a “water and flour!” chant filled the room. Entering the bakery, Mr. Cruz stopped to pose for a few pictures. The adults led a chant of “roll, roll, roll your matzo,” as the group migrated to the dough table and fetched rollers. Mr. Cruz was asked if this was his first matzo-making outing. “It is,” he said. Would he like a matzo-making hat? “I’ll pass on the hat,” he said. “It’s a basic rule of politics: Be careful with hats.” (He used equivalent logic in declining to wear a cheesehead in Wisconsin on Monday.) Would he like dark or light matzo? “Ahhhhh, surprise me.” An administrator asked if the children were excited to see Mr. Cruz. There was mostly silence — and an intense focus on rolling. “You guys are doing a great job,” Mr. Cruz said. Mr. Cruz was asked if he would like to have holes in his matzo. “I would like to have holes in my matzo,” he said. Then came another chant: “Make, make, make the holes.” Mr. Cruz, in a light blue tie and cowboy boots, lowered his head a bit, joining the children around the table. “So how old is everybody?” he asked. “Three!” “Three!” “Over three!”  “Everyone’s three!” Mr. Cruz said. A child chimed in to correct him.  You’re four?” Mr. Cruz asked. “You’re four. Three and four. You’re four? You’re five?” One child said he was 13, unconvincingly. With ages established, Mr. Cruz asked the children to name their favorite thing about Passover. “Maror!” a boy replied, naming the bitter herbs eaten at a Seder. “You are going to have an interesting life,” Mr. Cruz said, to the laughter of adults. “You are attracted to the more difficult things in life.”  “Thank you,” a man nearby told him. “This is my son.”  “This is a young man who doesn’t shy away from a challenge,” Mr. Cruz said. The father surmised that his son could run for president one day. Mr. Cruz did not reply; it was not clear that he heard. As the girl to his left worked the dough, Mr. Cruz observed that the piece had many holes. “That is a lot of holes,” Mr. Cruz said. “It’s hole-y matzo. There we go!” The joke killed in this room. Mr. Cruz went on to say he had been “privileged to be at many a Seder table,” recalling an encounter last year with a Holocaust survivor. Someone remarked on the fish balloons. “That’s fabulous,” Mr. Cruz said. “You’ve got fish, like, flying in the air.” Then Mr. Cruz grabbed a pizza-peel-style utensil and lifted the dough toward an oven in the corner of the room. He asked about the differences between this oven and a pizza oven, and began discussing Passover with some of his hosts. “Next year in Jerusalem,” Mr. Cruz said at one point, uttering the phrase that comes at the conclusion of a Seder.  He was told that, because Passover had not yet come, the appropriate phrase would be “this year in Jerusalem” at this stage. “Well, next year in Jerusalem,” he said, “hopefully I’ll need a bigger plane to get there.” Mr. Cruz was asked if he consulted often with any particular rabbi or other counselor on the Jewish faith. “Nick!” he said, calling over an aide, Nick Muzin, who he said advised him often on the subject. A short while later, the matzo was ready, and the attendees gathered for a picture. “What camera are we looking at?” Mr. Cruz asked. This never became entirely clear. But soon, a tune broke out: “Dayenu,” a Passover song that translates to “it would have been enough.” Day-day-enu, day-day-enu, day-day-enu, dayenu, dayenu! Mr. Cruz joined in, a bit uneasily, for a few syllables at a time. “Many blessings, and thank you,” Mr. Cruz said, as an aide signaled it was time to leave. Removing her chef’s hat, Ms. Winner said it had been “very important” for a presidential candidate like Mr. Cruz to have taken in the scene. She was asked if he seemed familiar with Jewish traditions. “Somewhat,” she said. “I’m not going to lie. Somewhat.” As Mr. Cruz reached the door, flanked by a phalanx of staff members and photographers, another host was less equivocal. “Definitely good for the Jews!” he shouted, and the senator stepped out again onto Ocean Parkway.