 While Donald J. Trump is busy barnstorming New York, his allies in Washington are busy trying to win the support of Republicans on Capitol Hill.  Members of Mr. Trump’s House Leadership Committee, with Representatives Chris Collins of New York and Duncan D. Hunter of California as chairmen, will hold a meeting at a private club in Washington on Thursday with about a dozen House members, a mix of Trump supporters and those who remain uncommitted to a candidate. The meeting, said Joe Kasper, Mr. Hunter’s chief of staff, is “informal,” and will provide a chance for the group to talk about possible outreach and opportunities going forward. But he said Mr. Hunter, so far, views himself less as an aggressive advocate for Mr. Trump and more as a resource for members of Congress and political operatives, who are increasingly intrigued by the New York real estate baron and his message. “You can’t seek people out and try to convince them if they don’t want to be convinced,” Mr. Kasper said.  Mr. Hunter, he said, “at a certain point may actually decide to proactively reach out and take meetings, but there is not time whatsoever, especially during the off hours here, when scores of people are not approaching him on Donald Trump. He doesn’t have to seek anybody out.” Last month, during a whirlwind, daylong trip to Washington, Mr. Trump held a lunch meeting at a law firm in the shadow of the Capitol, with a group that included Newt Gingrich and his wife Callista; Senators Tom Cotton of Arkansas and Jeff Sessions of Alabama; Jim DeMint, the former senator from South Carolina who is now president of the conservative Heritage Foundation; and several House Republicans, including Mr. Collins. The meeting Thursday is part of an effort by Mr. Trump’s campaign to ramp up his congressional outreach — support he will need going forward, especially if he is the Republican Party nominee.  “A lot of people feel that Donald Trump presents all of the right qualities, even if he’s at little inarticulate at times,” Mr. Kasper said. “They believe that’s absolutely something he can work through.”