 Hillary Rodham Clinton is showing a new television spot in Iowa and New Hampshire in which the only words are the candidate talking about ending gun violence.  The spot would have been hard to imagine even four years ago — a presidential candidate running a television ad featuring nothing but a stump speech about guns, a politically sensitive topic in many parts of the country.  But the ads are a reflection of both the Democratic Party’s drift toward the urban left and a shift in the politics of the national debate over guns.  The spot is a clip from Mrs. Clinton speaking at a town-hall-style event during one of her campaign stops.  “This epidemic of gun violence knows no boundaries,” Mrs. Clinton says in the spot, adding later: “We’re better than this. We need to close the loopholes.”  She makes a call for universal background checks in the speech, before saying, “How many people have to die before we actually act before we come together as a nation?”   Mrs. Clinton has made gun control a centerpiece of her stump speech since the mass shooting of black church-goers in Charleston, S.C., in June, one in a string of shootings in the country since the December 2012 killing of 20 school children and six adults in Newtown, Conn.  Her comments reflect a shift in her position over the years: Mrs. Clinton was critical of Barack Obama in 2008 in their primary contest for describing voters as “clinging” to guns, and she repeatedly sounded a note of caution about balancing the rights of gun owners with any new laws.  However, since then, background checks have become more broadly popular. And the Democratic Party’s base in national campaigns has shifted away from more rural states, where the issue could cut against them.  The spot is also a way for Mrs. Clinton, without naming Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, to highlight a policy difference with her main rival for the Democratic nomination.  Mr. Sanders, during the first Democratic debate, said that all the “shouting” in the world wouldn’t change gun laws, and noted that he was from a rural state. But his record on gun control is seen by Mrs. Clinton’s allies and progressives in the party as one of the few areas where she can get to his left. 