 Two polls in Iowa and a barrage of Republican attacks have put a spring in the step of supporters of Hillary Rodham Clinton. Mrs. Clinton has rebounded mightily in polls of Iowa Democrats over the last two weeks, building her most commanding lead there since June over her main rival for the party’s presidential nomination, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. She was ahead of Mr. Sanders by 41 percentage points among likely caucus voters in a Monmouth University poll and by 38 points in a Loras College survey, both released on Tuesday. And in Wednesday night’s Republican debate, the contenders aimed as much fire at Mrs. Clinton as at one another — accusing her of being a “pessimist” (Gov. Chris Christie) and a hypocrite (Carly Fiorina), of wanting to raise Social Security taxes (Mike Huckabee), and of running for President Obama’s “third term” (Jeb Bush). But several Democrats cited the Iowa poll numbers on Thursday as they assessed the repeated Republican attacks on Mrs. Clinton the night before. The Democrats argued that Mrs. Clinton, after months of troubles, is now gaining strength after her own strong performance in the Oct. 13 debate and the decision by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. not to enter the party’s nomination contest. As Mrs. Clinton improves, attacking her has taken on increasing urgency for Republicans like Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who was the most aggressive against her at the debate (and who some Democrats see as her greatest threat). He branded Mrs. Clinton as “a big-government liberal,” accused her of misleading Americans over the lethal attacks on the American consulate in Libya, and portrayed her as a candidate of the past, much like Senator Barack Obama did eight years ago. While some aides have cautioned that Mrs. Clinton’s lead in Iowa is not as great as the two recent polls indicate, other Democrats called the poll numbers the strongest sign yet that Mrs. Clinton is cementing her status as the party’s top candidate and will be coming under greater attacks from Republicans (as well as from Mr. Sanders). “Democrats are coalescing around Hillary now, especially in Iowa, and Rubio and others know they’ll attract Republican voters by going after a strong Hillary Clinton,” said Edward Rendell, a former Pennsylvania governor who is supporting Mrs. Clinton. “I think it would take almost an arrest for Hillary not to get the nomination. Those two recent polls in Iowa are huge for her.”