 Good Wednesday morning. Some clarity, or at least its potential, arrived on Tuesday in the fractured House race to replace Speaker John A. Boehner, as Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, who had previously said no, thank you, laid out the conditions under which he might consider picking up the gavel. And while there are still only rumors and guesses as to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s plans for the presidential race, he provided some possible coming attractions. Mr. Biden isn’t running for president yet, but on Tuesday, he provided a vivid example of what his campaign appearances might look like should he jump into the race. One word comes to mind: messy. The voluble veep, at what was supposed to be a non-news-producing celebration of former Vice President Walter F. Mondale’s legacy, made several comments that set off fact-checkers, consumed much of a White House briefing, and served as a reminder of both Mr. Biden’s appeal and his potential drawbacks. The chief highlight was Mr. Biden’s assertion that he had privately counseled the president to go ahead with the risky special forces raid to kill or capture Osama bin Laden — a statement that seemed to contradict not only his earlier comments that he had expressed reservations, but those of others, including President Obama. Mr. Biden also said that Mr. Obama had promised him veto power over cabinet nominations and that he spent four to seven hours “every single day” with him. And he went on at length about his significant authority in the administration on both domestic and foreign policy. The comments prompted multiple appeals to the White House spokesman, Josh Earnest, to confirm these accounts. He said he was unable to do so, noting that, “I don’t have any insight to share with you about the private conversations between the president and vice president.” As he ponders a bid, Mr. Biden seems eager to make clear he supported the successful bin Laden mission, no matter his earlier statements. He also appeared to be trying to show that he was a full partner in all the activities of the administration as opposed to the more limited role of, say, a secretary of state. Having the ability to claim an exceedingly close working and personal relationship with Mr. Obama would be a definite campaign plus, but only if all the facts hold up. Mr. Biden, a fierce advocate of Amtrak for his journeys back-and-forth to his home in Wilmington, Del., also noted that he had spent 80 percent of his life on the train. That statement is also under review. — Carl Hulse What We’re Watching Today — A day before Hillary Rodham Clinton’s testimony to the House committee investigating the attacks in Benghazi, Libya, David Brock, the founder of Correct the Record, an outside group that defends Mrs. Clinton, will give a speech at the World Affairs Council of Philadelphia, aiming to “put the legitimacy of the committee on trial,” and “arguing for its disbandment.” — President Obama will “host a community discussion” in Charleston, W.Va., The White House says, on prescription drug abuse and the heroin epidemic. Overhauling the criminal justice system, especially as it applies to drug use, is a source of bipartisan agreement both in Congress and on the campaign trail. — Donald J. Trump is scheduled to hold a rally in Burlington, Iowa, where attendees can “ask him where he stands on issues,” his campaign says. Our Other Favorites From The Times What We’re Reading Elsewhere — The Huffington Post writes that Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont “joined a push for the Department of Justice to investigate allegations that ExxonMobil hid research confirming fossil fuels contribute significantly to climate change.” — In an op-ed article for National Review Online, Mr. Bush writes that his growing dispute with Mr. Trump over George W. Bush and the Sept. 11 attacks reveals “a clear choice on national security,” pitting the younger Mr. Bush, who has “offered strategies to confront Iran and combat the growing terrorist threat to our country,” against Mr. Trump, who “simply doesn’t know what he’s talking about.” — And speaking of Mr. Trump, The Atlantic says that an air of incredulity still pervades news coverage of his candidacy. But, it says, “perhaps it is no longer news, three months in, that the leading candidate for the Republican presidential nomination is, in fact, running for president.”