 KEENE, N.H. – Of all the Republicans campaigning in New Hampshire, Gov. John Kasich of Ohio has appealed most explicitly to the state’s population of unpredictable independent voters and moderate Republicans, who play an outsize role in presidential primaries here. That strategy was on vivid display Saturday: With the rest of the Republican presidential field scouring Iowa for last-minute converts, Mr. Kasich wooed middle-of-the-road voters in southern New Hampshire with some of his most direct language yet. At a town-hall-style meeting in Keene, Mr. Kasich described himself as a conservative but not a partisan and asked voters who disagree with Republican orthodoxy to consider supporting his campaign. “I’m an independent guy. The Republican Party is my vehicle, but it has never been my master,” Mr. Kasich said. “But I am a conservative that believes that conservative principles can help us to rise.” He continued, “If I am president, I get to call the tune, but other people who may not think exactly the way I do, that want to come and play in the orchestra – they’re all going to be welcome.” Mr. Kasich has defended his credentials as a conservative, highlighting his austere approach to fiscal issues in Congress and as governor. But he has also embraced praise from institutions that conservatives typically distrust. At a morning event in Merrimack, Mr. Kasich boasted of receiving the endorsement of The Boston Globe; in Keene, he brandished the just-issued endorsement of The New York Times. (The editorial boards of both papers are widely seen by conservatives as leaning to the left.) At both events, Mr. Kasich alluded to the MSNBC show “Morning Joe,” a mainstay of centrist economic elites and political insiders in New York and Washington. Speaking to reporters outside the Historical Society of Cheshire County in Keene, Mr. Kasich said endorsements from outside the conservative coalition showed his “ability to reach out and win a general election, so you can begin to bring about the conservative principles that I’ve always governed under.” Republicans, Mr. Kasich argued, should look to his approach as a model that works for the party, citing his record of balancing budgets and Ohio’s recent economic growth. “It’s a formula that works, but it’s also a formula that cares about people,” he said. The campaign in New Hampshire has entered a critical phase for Mr. Kasich, who has until recently flown under the radar in the Republican race and drawn few attacks from his opponents. As a result, he has been free to deliver an upbeat and moderate-in-tone message aimed squarely at New Hampshire’s ideological middle. In that respect, Mr. Kasich has emulated the model of Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former Utah governor who focused on pursuing centrist votes in the 2012 New Hampshire primary. (Mr. Huntsman finished third in the state, with 17 percent of the vote.) The political environment here has grown more complicated for Mr. Kasich the last few days, as three outside groups opposing him or backing his rivals have attacked him with television advertisements and campaign mailings. America Leads, a “super PAC” supporting Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, has gone on the offensive for the first time in the race, sending mail to New Hampshire voters that brands Mr. Kasich as a tax-raiser. (“Doesn’t matter if you’re going out or staying home,” one piece of mail says. “You can’t avoid John Kasich’s tax increases.”) Mr. Kasich said outside his event in Keene that he was prepared to fight back against his opponents, though he said he would continue to run a “very positive campaign.” “You want to come after me, O.K., well, we’re not going to sit back and take it,” Mr. Kasich said. Alluding to his upbringing outside Pittsburgh, he said, “I’m a McKees Rocks boy. You know, if you come into our town and beat us in football, you know, we’ll break all the windows on your bus. That’s just the way it works.”