 Senators Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz assailed Donald J. Trump in the presidential debate on Thursday for his involvement in Trump University, a defunct educational company that triggered a massive fraud suit against Mr. Trump. Now, voters are about to learn more about Trump University in television commercials. The American Future Fund, a conservative nonprofit group, is preparing what a spokesman said is a multimillion-dollar ad campaign highlighting people who say they were ripped off by Mr. Trump’s enterprise. The ads feature two men and one woman who describe themselves as having been lured into paying tens of thousands of dollars for business coaching that led nowhere. The message of the ads appears to serve a dual purpose: to undercut Mr. Trump’s credentials as a businessman, and raise questions in voters’ minds about his honesty and trustworthiness. One man featured in the ads, a retiree named Bob, says he was “scammed because I believed in Donald Trump.”  “Please don’t fall for the same line that I fell for,” he says, adding of Mr. Trump, “He can make people believe, practically, anything.” Sherri, a woman who is described as a single mother, says in another ad that she made a “huge mistake trusting” Mr. Trump, and said that all the promises Trump University made turned out to be “just a fake.” A third testimonial, from a young man named Kevin, may be the harshest. “I spent about $30,000 on Trump University and, basically, all it did was ruin my credit and ruin my life,” he says, calling Mr. Trump “just a fraud, a misrepresentation.” The exact scope and cost of the television campaign has not been announced, and the American Future Fund does not have to disclose its donors because it is registered as a nonprofit. But the hard-hitting ads strike Mr. Trump in an area his critics have long perceived as a vulnerability, and his opponents have largely avoided. In mood and message, the commercials resemble the ads Democrats ran against Mitt Romney in the 2012 presidential election, featuring people who said they had been victimized by Mr. Romney’s business practices at the private equity firm Bain Capital. In Thursday’s debate, Mr. Trump was dismissive of attacks on his involvement with Trump University, which has drawn lawsuits from individuals who claim they were defrauded, and from Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman of New York. Mr. Trump said in the debate that the claims against him in the Trump University cases were baseless. “It’s something I could have settled many times,” Mr. Trump said. “I could settle it right now for very little money, but I don’t want to do it out of principle.” He continued, “The people that took the course all signed — most — many — many signed report cards saying it was fantastic, it was wonderful, it was beautiful.”