 CLEVELAND — Yet another prominent person Donald J. Trump hoped would appear at the Republican National Convention has rebuffed his invitation, the latest sign of disarray in the campaign’s planning of an event that starts in just three days. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, who heads the congregation that Mr. Trump’s daughter Ivanka and her husband, Jared Kushner, attend, told friends and congregants in an email on Friday that he had decided to back out because his appearance had become too politically charged. Faced with a backlash after the Trump campaign released his name on a list of speakers — without specifying that he would deliver an invocation and not a speech — the rabbi said he had little choice. “The whole matter turned from rabbinic to political, something which was never intended,” he said in the email. “In the interest of bringing our community together, I have asked to be relieved of my commitment to deliver the invocation.” The rabbi’s withdrawal came less than 24 hours after the announcement from Tim Tebow, the onetime football star, that he also would not speak. Mr. Tebow, a Heisman Trophy winner and well-known religious conservative, was invited to appear at the convention as part of the lineup of athletes who will speak on Mr. Trump’s behalf. But not just athletes are taking a pass. Both Senator Rob Portman and Gov. John Kasich, the two highest-ranking Republicans in Ohio, the state hosting the convention, have said they have no interest in speaking. Four of the last five Republican presidential nominees have said that they would not be in Cleveland next week (The exception is Bob Dole, the nominee in 1996). Nor will almost every Republican senator in tight re-election races. Rabbi Lookstein’s email is below: Friends, When Ivanka Trump, a member of our congregation, invited me to deliver the opening prayer at the Republican National convention next Monday, I made a personal decision to honor her request out of respect for her and our relationship. Unfortunately, when my name appeared on a list of speakers at the convention, without the context of the invocation I had been invited to present, the whole matter turned from rabbinic to political, something which was never intended. Like my father before me, I have never been involved in politics. Politics divide people. My life has been devoted to uniting a community — Ahavat Yisrael and ahavat ha-adam. In the interest of bringing our community together, I have asked to be relieved of my commitment to deliver the invocation. My request has been honored with the same love and respect in which it was first offered and intended. May God bless us with a Sabbath of rest, harmony and peace. Shabbat Shalom.  Very cordially yours, Haskel Lookstein