 HOUSTON — Por la primera vez este año, el debate republicano de esta noche se podrá escuchar en español. Telemundo, a broadcast partner with CNN for Thursday night’s Republican debate in Houston, will translate the action into Spanish live for its viewers throughout the night.  From their studios in Miami, a large team of translators will do simultaneous interpretation of all candidates, hosts and panelists. Because of the fast-paced nature of the debate, the translating team won’t be dedicating one translator to a candidate, but rather a team will be presenting the back-and-forth moments in Spanish. The network will also have one of its anchors, María Celeste Arrarás, sit on the panel to ask questions specifically in issues important to the Hispanics. “It is a well-known fact that Latinos could decide the future president of this country,” Ms. Arrarás said. “Therefore we have a tremendous responsibility to inform and empower our audience in the language they prefer.” The network will also air a public service announcement ad, featuring hosts and personalities from the network encouraging people to vote. It’s part of the network’s large investment in the 2016 election, one they have branded #YODECIDO (“I decide”). It features a commitment of 275 hours of political coverage on the network, local voter registration drives and a digital platform designed for the youth vote, which will be maintained through a partnership with Columbia University’s Graduate School of Journalism and feature panels and conferences.  Hispanic issues have been at the forefront of the Republican primary fight here in Texas. Last night, at a town-hall-style event hosted by Fox News in Houston featuring Megyn Kelly, Senator Ted Cruz was specifically asked about the Republican Party and the Latino vote. “I’m mainly interested in the Republican Party growing to Latinos, especially Mexicans and Puerto Ricans,” said Jorge Villarreal, who was in the audience.  “So my question for you is, what is your message to those Latino conservative voters who are undecided and may be confused by the promises of your fellow Republican primary opponents?”   Mr. Cruz was quick with a response: “It is absolutely clear that Republicans have to do a much better job with the Hispanic community.”  