 DETROIT — Gov. John Kasich of Ohio finished higher than fourth place in only two of 11 states on Tuesday. But he argued on Wednesday that his performance was stronger than anticipated, and he suggested he would fare better in future contests. “Everybody thought I would just be wiped out last night, and it did not happen,” Mr. Kasich said in an interview on CNBC’s “Squawk Box.”  Mr. Kasich said Tuesday was “a good night for us” and was “much better than expectations.” In particular, he highlighted his performance in Vermont, where he only narrowly lost to Donald J. Trump and took second place. He also pointed to Massachusetts, where he held a slim edge over Senator Marco Rubio of Florida for second, and Virginia, where he finished fourth but gained delegates. Mr. Kasich also came in behind Ben Carson, who on Wednesday hinted that he might suspend his campaign, in seven of the states. Mr. Kasich is now looking forward to what he has called “home-court advantage” in some of the coming primaries. Mr. Kasich plans to focus on Michigan, whose primary is March 8, and his home state of Ohio, which votes on March 15. “I win Ohio, which I expect I will do, it’s a whole new ballgame,” he said. “I mean, it’s all back open again. Frankly, the race is wide open now.” He also raised questions about how Mr. Rubio and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas would fare in the coming weeks. Alluding to Mr. Rubio’s attacks on Mr. Trump in recent days, Mr. Kasich noted that one of his opponents “got in the mud with Trump.” “He had a terrible night,” Mr. Kasich said. “That’s not the way to do this.” And he said if Mr. Rubio were to lose Florida’s primary on March 15, that would spell the end of the senator’s presidential bid. “If you can’t carry your own state, you have to leave,” Mr. Kasich said. As for Mr. Cruz, who had long hoped for a big showing in the Deep South, Mr. Kasich suggested he faced an uncertain future because of the geography of coming nominating contests. “He had a good night, but now where does he go?” Mr. Kasich said. “Does he take what he is up north? That’s really the question.”