 SUMMERVILLE, S.C. — Jeb Bush has reached the point in his floundering presidential campaign where voters are offering him unsolicited advice. Trailing in the polls in South Carolina and fresh off the news that the state’s governor, Nikki R. Haley, had just endorsed Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, a visibly frustrated Mr. Bush took the stage at a country club here for his usual campaign speech. But when he was finished, an usual thing happened: Instead of the typical questions — about the rising cost of college tuition, say, or the growing national debt — voter after voter stood to give Mr. Bush suggestions on how to better run his campaign. Edward Scott, 58, who lives in Maryland but works in South Carolina, noted Mr. Bush’s “civility” and asked if he “could raise the bar” in the next debate and “try to be beyond the bullying,” adding that Mr. Bush seemed to have been “knocked off center” by his rivals. “I don’t feel like I’m shaken up by the bully,” said Mr. Bush, trying to defend his handling of Donald J. Trump’s unruly influence on the Republican primary race. “In fact, I’m the only guy going after the guy because he’s hijacking the party.” Another man, David Villinger, 62, of Ridgeville, S.C., said he couldn’t help but agree with Mr. Scott’s analysis. Mr. Villinger said he had heard “nothing but good things” about Mr. Bush, but worried, as he told the former Florida governor, that “the campaign has been co-opted by the P.T. Barnum of our time.” “I think he is getting you off your message, your good message,” he continued, urging Mr. Bush to emphasize his positive policies.  “This is what I do,” Mr. Bush said, sounding slightly exasperated. “This is called campaigning right now.”  After the event, Mr. Villinger told reporters, “He may be doing it, but I’m not seeing it.” But, he added, he had arrived at the country club torn between supporting Mr. Bush and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, and left “much more in Mr. Bush’s camp.” A third man, meanwhile, had stood to say that he loved Mr. Bush’s brother, former President George W. Bush, but wondered if Mr. Bush had the mettle to be a sufficiently tough candidate, using a more crude term. “Will I be an S.O.B., I think he said?” Mr. Bush said, turning to the crowd. “I will be tough, I will be resolute, I will be firm, I will be clear, I will be determined.” Mr. Bush had started his day several hours south in Beaufort, S.C., doing just that and attacking Mr. Rubio, who last week told CNN that Mr. Bush had no foreign policy experience.  Speaking shortly after Mr. Rubio secured Ms. Haley’s support, Mr. Bush was even harsher: “It’s hard for me to be lectured to by a gifted young guy who thinks that going to a committee hearing means that you know something about the world,” he said.  After the event, Mr. Scott, who works in commercial real estate, lamented that the 2016 presidential race was “like watching a Jerry Springer show.” Mr. Bush’s narrative, he added, “just doesn’t play like that in a national forum, and it’s too bad because he is the most qualified and he’s got a great story.” Mr. Bush, for his part, seemed unready to be written off just yet. “It’s all been decided, apparently,” he told the crowd. “The pundits have made it all — it’s all decided. We don’t have to go vote, I guess. It’s all finished. I should just stop campaigning, maybe, huh?”  “It’s all done,” he added, drily. 