 PHOENIX — Hillary Clinton sharply denounced Sheriff Joe Arpaio, saying the Maricopa County sheriff, who became the face of hard-line anti-immigration policies because of his tactics here, had treated his “fellow human beings with disrespect” and contempt.” “It just makes my heart sink,” Mrs. Clinton told a rally of mostly Latino supporters on Monday. “We are better than that.” Mr. Arpaio, who rose to national prominence for his aggressive raids of undocumented immigrants in Arizona, endorsed the leading Republican presidential candidate, Donald J. Trump, in January and campaigned with him in Arizona over the weekend. Mrs. Clinton did not mention Mr. Trump or the violence that erupted at his rally in Tucson on Saturday, but she alluded to his “pitting groups of Americans against each other.” “It’s just wrong. It’s not who we are,” Mrs. Clinton said. “I do believe we are stronger and more effective when we are coming together.” Mrs. Clinton reminded the audience to vote in Arizona’s Democratic primary on Tuesday.  “There is an opportunity for everybody in Arizona to go out and vote for the kind of future you want, the kind of president you want,” she said, when a man interrupted with: “We want you!”  A coy Mrs. Clinton said, “Well, I want you to want me.” Ever since her sweep of victories in the five states that held contests last week, Mrs. Clinton has taken sharper aim at Mr. Trump. Hours before the rally here, Mrs. Clinton lambasted the Manhattan real-estate developer as inexperienced and naïve on foreign policy. “We need steady hands, not a president who says he’s neutral on Monday, pro-Israel on Tuesday and who-knows-what on Wednesday,” Mrs. Clinton said early Monday in a speech at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, or Aipac, the nation’s most powerful pro-Israel lobbying group. Mr. Trump also addressed Aipac in Washington, just as Mrs. Clinton spoke here, vowing to “fight for comprehensive immigration reform,” another issue that has sharply divided the political landscape and animated voters on both sides. On Monday, Mrs. Clinton largely left the direct criticism of Mr. Trump to her surrogates. Thomas E. Perez, the secretary of labor and a Clinton supporter, poked fun at Mr. Trump as he announced Mrs. Clinton, the former secretary of state. The presidency, he said, isn’t about “whether you have big hands, but steady hands.” Mark Kelly, the astronaut and husband of former Representative Gabrielle Giffords, who was shot at a Tucson shopping center in 2011, said Mr. Trump was “bringing out the worst in our country: anger, hatred, division.” Arizona will award just 75 delegates in Tuesday’s primary, but it represents a battleground in the fight over immigration reform. Democrats believe Mr. Trump’s remarks about immigrants and his signature proposal to build a wall on the Mexican border could galvanize Latinos to vote in larger numbers in November, potentially turning states like Arizona and Colorado blue. Mrs. Clinton has mocked Mr. Trump’s proposal to build a wall.  “He’s talking about a very tall wall, right, a beautiful tall wall, the most beautiful tall wall, better than the Great Wall of China,” Mrs. Clinton said in the last Democratic debate, impersonating Mr. Trump’s accent. Senator Bernie Sanders has crisscrossed Arizona holding large rallies, as Mrs. Clinton has mostly dispatched surrogates,  including Bill Clinton, to campaign on her behalf here. Mr. Sanders has criticized Mrs. Clinton for telling CNN in 2014 that the Central American children that arrived on the border should be sent back. As Mrs. Clinton spoke here, the Sanders campaign blasted out an editorial in The Arizona Republic blaming Bill Clinton’s signing of the 1996 Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act for the current deportations. Mrs. Clinton’s choice of venues was symbolic: Carl Hayden high school, a mostly Latino high school, became famous in 2004 after a group of students, the sons of undocumented immigrants from Mexico, beat M.I.T. students and won a national engineering competition by building an underwater robot from Home Depot parts. The underdog tale became a documentary, “Underwater Dreams.” After her rally, Mrs. Clinton planned to meet with representatives from many of the state’s native tribes, including the Navajo Nation and the Hopi. On Tuesday, in Washington State, Mrs. Clinton plans to have a round-table discussion with tribal leaders in Puyallup. An earlier version of this article misstated the number of states holding Democratic nominating contests last week. There were five, not six.