 Supporters of Donald J. Trump expressed two clear sentiments in the latest New York Times/CBS News poll: anger about the way things are going in Washington, and excitement about what Mr. Trump would do as president. The national poll showed Mr. Trump with a commanding lead in the large Republican field, with more than twice the support of his nearest rival, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas. More Trump supporters say they are angry about how things are going in the nation’s capital than do Republican primary voters who support other candidates (given the sample size, there were not enough supporters for other individual candidates to analyze separately). A slight majority of Trump supporters — 52 percent — say they are angry, compared with 38 percent of voters backing other Republican candidates.   Another 41 percent of Trump backers said they were dissatisfied but not angry with the way things were going in Washington. Just 6 percent of them said they were satisfied with the state of affairs in the capital and 1 percent said they were enthusiastic about it. Looking ahead, 52 percent of Trump supporters say they are excited about what Mr. Trump would do as president if he is elected; another four in 10 are optimistic, but not excited. That’s a higher level of excitement than seen on the Democratic side: Just three in 10 Democratic primary voters who back Hillary Clinton in the poll say they are excited about what she would do if elected. About six in 10 of her supporters say they are optimistic, but not excited.   The poll also shows Trump supporters are more likely than voters supporting other Republican nominees to cite strong leadership as the most important quality for a candidate. Most Trump supporters, 56 percent, say that is the case — far more than those who cite honesty, empathy, experience or electability. Among supporters of the other Republican candidates, 35 percent cite strong leadership, while 37 percent say honesty and trustworthiness are most important.   An overwhelming majority of Trump supporters — 94 percent — think their candidate says what he believes most of the time, rather than what people want to hear. A third of voters who back other Republican candidates disagree. And while 85 percent of Trump supporters say he has presented specific ideas about how he would accomplish his goals if elected, a slight majority of Republican primary voters backing other candidates think he has not.  Demographically, the poll shows Trump supporters to be somewhat younger, less educated and less likely to describe themselves as evangelicals compared with supporters of other Republican candidates. (Mr. Trump runs closely with Mr.  Cruz in the poll among evangelical and very conservative voters.) Trump supporters are also more likely than supporters of other Republican candidates to rate the economy poorly, and to say that the United States should not allow Syrian refugees into the country.  Mr. Trump’s business experience is a big positive for his backers. A majority of Trump supporters say they prefer that the Republican nominee for president be someone whose experience is mostly in the business or private sector, rather than in politics and government. A third of voters backing other Republican candidates agree, while two in 10 say they would prefer a nominee with political experience and nearly half say it doesn’t matter to them.   Dalia Sussman is a member of The Times’s news surveys department.
This is one of an occasional series of posts taking a deeper look at polling during this campaign cycle.