 Donald J. Trump continued to defend his campaign manager on Wednesday after the release of a videotape that showed he put a hand on a Breitbart News reporter he had previously denied touching.  In an interview on NBC’s “Today” show, Mr. Trump faced tough questions from the hosts Savannah Guthrie and Matt Lauer, who pointed out there was another episode in which the campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, made physical contact with a protester at an Arizona rally. Mr. Trump read an early statement from the reporter, Michelle Fields, that he said overdramatized the event.  “Why are you parsing her words and then giving the benefit of the doubt to your campaign manager?” Ms. Guthrie asked.  Mr. Trump repeatedly declared that Ms. Fields “lied” and hinted that someone might file a counterclaim against her.  “The videotape easily and plainly shows that in fact he did grab her and did pull her,” Mr. Lauer said, asking whether, as president, if a high-ranking member of his staff “publicly doesn’t tell the truth in the way that Corey Lewandowski hasn’t told the truth, would you put up with it?” The encounter, Mr. Trump said, “was so minor that he might not have even thought about it.”  Asked whether the episode would have quickly disappeared had Mr. Lewandowski just apologized at the time, Mr. Trump replied that Ms. Fields enjoyed the attention. “I think she would have pressed charges anyway because I think she likes it,” he said. Had there been an apology, he added, “she would have used that against him.”  The controversy stems from a March 8 encounter in which Ms. Fields, who was then working for the conservative website Breitbart, which has often been friendly to Mr. Trump, tried to question the candidate after a news conference had ended in Florida. At the time, she said Mr. Lewandowski had forcefully grabbed her. He denied touching her, posting on Twitter that she was “delusional” and pointing to other episodes in which she has been involved in controversies. But videotape from Mr. Trump’s own golf club, where the news conference occurred, showed that Mr. Lewandowski grabbed her arm and pulled her back from the candidate. That video was released by police in Jupiter, Fla., on Tuesday, after they charged Mr. Lewandowski with a charge of misdemeanor battery. The videotape from Mr. Trump’s club is the main evidence in the case.  While his campaign faces legal troubles, Mr. Trump also shed some more light on what kind of person he would look for as an attorney general or a potential Supreme Court nominee.  In an interview on ABC’s “Good Morning America,” he said that a willingness to scrutinize Hillary Clinton is an important qualification for a future appointment. “I’d probably appoint people that look seriously at her email disaster because it’s a criminal activity and I would appoint people that would look at that,” Mr. Trump said. “What she’s getting away with is absolutely murder.” He also suggested that the allegations facing Mrs. Clinton are more serious than the charges facing Mr. Lewandowski. “You talk about a case, now, that’s a real case,” he said. 