 PAWLEYS ISLAND, S.C. — The political backlash against Apple for refusing to help the F.B.I. hack an iPhone used by one of the San Bernardino attackers escalated on Friday with Donald J. Trump calling for a boycott of the company.  “What I think you ought to do is boycott Apple until such time as they give that security number,’’ Mr. Trump said, admitting it was a spur-of-the-moment thought. “How do you like that?  I just thought of it: Boycott Apple.’’ He accused the company’s chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, of grandstanding by resisting a court order to provide access to the phone, which has built-in encryption the company says was designed not to be cracked in order to protect users’ private information.  “Tim Cook’s looking to do a big number, probably to show how liberal he is,’’ Mr. Trump said.    Other Republican presidential candidates this week sided with the F.B.I., but did not go as far as Mr. Trump. Senator Ted Cruz said law enforcement was right in this case, but he agreed that Apple should not be forced to put a “backdoor on every cellphone everyone has.’’ Senator Marco Rubio said it was “a very complicated issue,’’ calling for a solution that would give law enforcement access in some cases but protect the privacy of everyday Americans. Mr. Cook, on the Apple website, said: “While we believe the FBI’s intentions are good, it would be wrong for the government to force us to build a backdoor into our products. And ultimately, we fear that this demand would undermine the very freedoms and liberty our government is meant to protect.” Mr. Trump has previously offered tough talk on Apple, promising that if elected he will force the company to make its phones in the United States rather than China. (One estimate of the retail price of an entirely-made-in-America iPhone: $2,000.) Mr. Trump called for a boycott in response to a question from an audience member about how to create jobs for young people. He promised to bring back jobs from China, then said it was important for law enforcement officials investigating the mass killings in San Bernardino, Calif., in December to be able to trace the contacts of one of the shooters.    “I like the idea of boycotting Apple until such time as they get that information,’’ Mr. Trump said.  After the rally, Mr. Trump said in a Twitter post that his own personal boycott was underway.   “I use both iPhone &amp; Samsung. If Apple doesn’t give info to authorities on the terrorists I’ll only be using Samsung until they give info,” he wrote.  