 Good Tuesday morning. Jeb Bush is heading back to Iowa, and the House to its leadership fight. At the same time, Congress is preparing to deal with the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact. The Bush campaign is releasing a Web video on Tuesday morning titled “Why I’m Running,” which highlights his record as governor of Florida, and later, Mr. Bush will be the featured speaker at a Scott County Republican dinner in Iowa, a state where his poll numbers have fallen. As for Washington, Mr. Bush has called for several changes to the political system, including a proposal to deal with legislators who repeatedly miss votes. While missing votes is a widespread issue in Congress, the move is a specifically relevant as Mr. Bush tries to beat back a threat from Senator Marco Rubio of Florida. Mr. Rubio has faced scrutiny for how many votes he has missed while campaigning for president. Mr. Bush’s appearance in Iowa also comes during the third week of ads aired by the “super PAC” supporting him. His standing in the polls has not moved significantly so far, and it remains to be seen if it will by the third Republican debate at the end of this month. — Maggie Haberman What We’re Watching This Week — Hillary Rodham Clinton heads to Iowa to kick off a two-day swing in the Hawkeye State with events in Davenport, Muscatine, Mount Vernon and Council Bluffs. — Mr. Bush will not be far from Mrs. Clinton as he makes his way to Bettendorf to speak at the Scott County G.O.P.’s Annual Ronald Reagan Dinner. — Michelle Obama welcomes students from four Washington schools for the annual fall harvest of the White House Kitchen Garden. — Penny Pritzker, the commerce secretary, will land in Cuba, where she will meet with officials to discuss trade and travel between Cuba and the United States. Trade Debate Finds Its Way Into 2016 The timing of Monday’s trade agreement guarantees that a deal that was going to be the subject of a fierce political fight under any circumstances will now be thrust into an intensifying presidential campaign, complicating its chances for approval by Congress. Not surprisingly, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, running for the Democratic presidential nomination, immediately assailed the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which he has previously strenuously objected to while the Republican candidate Donald J. Trump weighed in on Twitter, calling the trade pact a “terrible deal.” But the politics get a little trickier on Capitol Hill. Many congressional Democrats, for instance, have sided with labor against the agreement, but they are reluctant to quickly reject something that is a top priority for President Obama. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, said Democrats would be “shining a bright light” on the terms of the agreement. Most Republicans, on the other hand, are inclined to support the trade deal, which is strongly backed by the business lobby and was pushed by Republican congressional leaders. But they are anxious about getting too closely tied to anything that has the president’s endorsement or backing a deal against which Mr. Trump is whipping opposition. As the details of the agreement trickle out in the weeks ahead, it will become more clear just how difficult a sell the trade deal is going to be. — Carl Hulse Our Favorites From The Times Boehner Sets the Stage for His Own Departure The unsettled leadership picture for House Republicans is becoming even more unsettled. Speaker John A. Boehner on Monday set Oct. 29 as the day the full House will vote on his replacement. In a bit of a surprise, Mr. Boehner said the elections for other vacancies at the top of the House Republican hierarchy would be held after that, with the date to be determined by the new speaker. House Republicans on Thursday will still pick their candidate for speaker, and that is still, presumably, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, Mr. Boehner’s No. 2. The delay in the elections has multiple consequences. It makes it possible for Mr. McCarthy to keep his current leadership position should he not be able to close the deal on the floor at the end of the month.  It also puts the focus of this week’s election firmly on the speaker’s race by eliminating the distractions over possible races for majority leader and whip. On the other hand, it gives conservatives who are unhappy with the prospect of simply promoting the current leadership team a chance to find alternative candidates or to cause trouble for existing ones. And as past leadership fights have shown, the longer they go on, the more difficult it becomes to predict what will happen. Lastly, Mr. Boehner’s maneuvering with the dates shows that while he might be on his way out, he is playing a significant role in deciding how his successor will be chosen and whom it will be. — Carl Hulse What We’re Reading Elsewhere — The New Yorker profiles Mr. Sanders, detailing how the “populist prophet” has captured the country’s ear. — Jay Nordlinger of National Review argues that skills and stories, rather than outsider status, are fueling the success of Mr. Trump, Carly Fiorina and Ben Carson. — A libertarian Senate candidate in Florida is bringing unwanted attention to the party after it was revealed that he killed a goat and drank its blood as part of a pagan ritual to give thanks, The Associated Press reported. — Politico surveys pollsters who say polls are not a measure to be trusted for winnowing the Republican field.  For Political Emails, Sometimes ‘Unsubscribe’ Means ‘Pay Up’ Successful email fund-raising pitches in politics can take on many flavors, from fantasy football tips (thanks for the lineup reminder, Christie campaign) to the occasional pleas of desperation, like the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee’s multiday, multi-email campaign crying impeachment last cycle. The reason? Online fund-raising, particularly via email, is proving to be one of the most important platforms for raising small-dollar donations. But sometimes, campaigns can outsmart themselves. On Monday morning, those on the Republican National Committee’s email were greeted with the subject line “Too Many Emails?” from Sean Cairncross, the committee’s chief operating officer. It promised that if the recipient chipped in $20, the fund-raising emails would stop for the month of October. But if users read all the way to the bottom, they would see the line, “If you would prefer to no longer receive emails from the Republican National Committee, you can unsubscribe from this list,” with a link to unsubscribe. While it is very difficult to know which link those wishing to lighten their inbox’s load chose, there is one difference: The unsubscribe link at the bottom link is free. — Nick Corasaniti