 So that was interesting.  Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont fought Hillary Clinton to a tie, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida polished his bronze medal and turned a would-be concession speech into a victory lap, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas marched to victory, and Donald J. Trump was faced with a loss he had to explain in the Iowa caucuses on Monday night.  Let’s start with the most unanticipated result. Mrs. Clinton had seemed a clear winner in the last Des Moines Register/Bloomberg Politics, and her team felt confident of victory heading into the night. But Mr. Sanders’s vote share was surprising to say the least and created the thing Mrs. Clinton least enjoys in her races — the element of surprise. Mrs. Clinton, who is behind in New Hampshire, now needs to fare well in the Nevada caucuses this month. And Mr. Sanders, who has already raised tens of millions of dollars with his populist message, seems newly energized and ready for a long fight. As for the Republicans, Mr. Cruz’s victory validated his campaign’s internal predictions. Mr. Rubio outperformed his poll numbers and heads into New Hampshire with a potential bounce. He shrewdly gave his speech before either Mr. Cruz or Mr. Trump, and offered essentially a version of the “comeback kid” speech from Bill Clinton’s second-place finish in New Hampshire in 1992.  Mr. Cruz emerges as the strong favorite for anti-establishment voters and conservatives. Mr. Rubio potentially overtakes Mr. Trump and becomes the establishment’s best chance to stop Mr. Cruz, who now heads into New Hampshire having defied late predictions that he would lose in Iowa. But Mr. Trump’s deeply negative attacks on Mr. Cruz, raising questions about his citizenship, appear to have backfired.  Mr. Trump handled his second-place finish stoically, thanking Iowans and insisting he loved the state. But though the polls were wrong to show him winning, he couldn’t shake his reliance on public surveys, noting that one in New Hampshire shows him up by 28 points. But that was conducted before the Iowa caucuses. There are several candidates vying for support in New Hampshire who are strong fits for the state, and Mr. Trump will face fresh pressure to show he can compete. What might save Mr. Trump, ironically, is the mess on the Democratic side. Instead of wall-to-wall coverage about his loss, the focus will largely be on Mr. Sanders’s strong showing, giving Mr. Trump additional time to adjust. And then there’s the ever-present question of whether Mr. Trump does something dramatic to regain the attention.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.