 Here’s how we analyzed the Democratic debate. Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont faced off yet again Sunday night, after a weekend of voting where both Democrats notched wins. Mr. Sanders won the Maine Democratic caucuses, according to The Associated Press. The debate, hosted by CNN, took place in Flint, Mich., a town facing a drinking water crisis, in a state where voters head to the polls on Tuesday that will prove a crucial test for both candidates. • Anderson Cooper, the debate moderator, kicked off the night by explaining why CNN had chosen to stage its latest debate in Flint, Mich. The city is “in crisis,” he said, and the water “is toxic.” • Both Mr. Sanders and Mrs. Clinton also paid homage to Flint in their minute-long opening statements, calling for the state’s governor, Rick Snyder, to resign. Mr. Sanders called the situation in Flint “a dereliction of duty,” and Mrs. Clinton said she planned to “continue to shine a very bright spotlight on what has happened in this city.” • Mrs. Clinton declined to say if the head of the Environmental Protection Agency should be fired, saying she didn’t know how high up the chain the problem went. But both she and Mr. Sanders said whoever was responsible for the crisis should absolutely be relieved of their job. • The water crisis in Flint dominated the first 20 minutes of the debate, with every question (and follow-up) focusing on some aspect of the tragedy. The first question not about the water maintained focus on the community, with a voter asking what Mrs. Clinton would do to keep jobs from being sent overseas. • The first heated moment came after Mrs. Clinton talked about her efforts to stop jobs from going overseas. “I am very glad that secretary Clinton has discovered religion on this issue, but it’s a little bit too late,” Mr. Sanders said, arguing that his rival had supported many “disastrous trade agreements.” Mrs. Clinton countered by pointing out that Mr. Sanders had opposed the auto bailout — a key issue for Michigan, with its reliance on the auto industry, and one that she had supported. • The two candidates also tussled over the speeches Mrs. Clinton gave to banking groups. Mr. Sanders said “if you get paid a couple hundred thousand dollars for a speech, it must be a great speech — I think we should release it.” Mrs. Clinton said she would be happy to release transcripts of her speeches, assuming her potential opponents did the same. “I’ll release it! Here it is!” Mr. Sanders said, throwing up his hands and prompting chuckles. “There ain’t nothing! I don’t give speeches to Wall Street!” • Mrs. Clinton used an emotional question on gun violence — from a father whose daughter was recently injured in a shooting spree — to highlight a key difference between herself and Mr. Sanders: Her vote against giving immunity to gun manufacturers. Mr. Sanders argued that he has a D-minus rating from the N.R.A., but still stands by his position, saying that what Mrs. Clinton is suggesting is “ending gun manufacturing in America. I don’t agree with that.” As the exchange grew increasingly heated, Mrs. Clinton ended by evoking the children who were killed in the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School, to applause. “You’re not the only person whose heart was broken,” Mr. Sanders said. • Mr. Sanders, who has struggled with minority voters, was asked to talk about personal experiences that have helped him understand the “mind-set and values of other cultures.” The Vermont senator discussed how, as a student at the University of Chicago, he had worked with his fellow students, black and white, to desegregate housing owned by the university. “Most candidates running for president usually don’t put this on their résumé, but a year later I was arrested by Chicago police for trying to desegregate the Chicago school system,” he added. Mrs. Clinton, for her part, talked about a meaningful experience she’d had as a young woman working for Marian Wright Edelman, investigating whether schools in Alabama were discriminating based on race. • Asked a follow-up question on “racial blind spots,” Mrs. Clinton said that as a “white woman” in America, there were some experiences she simply hasn’t had — like having “The Talk” with your children, about a routine stop by the police that could end in violence. Mr. Sanders recalled visiting the nation’s capital with an African-American colleague, only to learn the man refused to hail cabs in Washington, D.C., for fear that as a black man he might be ignored. “When you’re white, you don’t know what it’s like to be living in a ghetto,” he said, later. • On the issue of fracking, Mrs. Clinton said she supported the process only if it were highly regulated. Laying out several conditions, she explained that, “by the time you get through all of my conditions,” she doubted there would be much fracking occurring in America. Mr. Sanders offered a slightly more succinct answer: “My answer is a lot shorter,” he said. “No. I do not support fracking.” • Because no debate is complete without the looming presence of Donald J. Trump, one of the final questions was how Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders would take on the real estate billionaire. “The last time I checked, as of last night, Donald Trump had received 3.6 million votes, which is a good number,” Mrs. Clinton said. “There’s only one candidate in either party who has more votes than him — and that’s me.”  “Donald Trump’s bigotry, his bullying, and his bluster are not going to wear well on the America people,” she added. Mr. Sanders, meanwhile, offered, “Sanders versus Trump does a lot better than Clinton versus Trump.”