 A prominent group of New York business leaders took out a full-page New York Times ad praising the city’s immigrants “regardless of their place of origin or religious affiliation” amid the increasingly harsh statements being made during the presidential race.  The ad, from the Partnership for New York City, does not single out Donald J. Trump or any of the other Republican candidates, some of whom suggested a block on Syrian refugees in the wake of the Nov. 13 terrorist attack in Paris. But Mr. Trump is the lone businessman from New York in the race, and he has proposed the strictest halt on immigration, proposing a temporary barring of all Muslims entering the United States until the threat from the Islamic State is better understood.  The advertisement was not voted on by the group’s board, but was signed off on by three chairmen of the partnership, all of them powerful business leaders: Stephen A. Schwarzman of Blackstone, James P. Gorman, the chairman of Morgan Stanley, and Philippe P. Dauman, the chief executive of Viacom.  In large block type, the ad focuses on the number “3,160,471.” Below the number, it says: “That’s the number of New Yorkers who came to our city from another country. Regardless of their place of origin or religious affiliation, we welcome their contributions to the strength and vitality of our great city. Just as we have since 1768.”  In an interview, Kathryn Wylde, the president of the partnership, which placed the spot, said it was done “to respond to the climate of fear in the country that some candidates are tapping into.”  The idea originated with “one of our members, actually, who felt that the business community” should “stand up for New York being a diverse, open city.” The fear that exists nationally has “become a little irrational in the political arena,” Ms. Wylde said, pointing out that the city has hundreds of thousands of Muslim residents.  A spokeswoman for Mr. Trump did not respond to a request for comment. But the mere presence of the ad highlights the degree to which Mr. Trump has never been ingrained in the business culture of New York City, even as he has enjoyed success throughout Midtown Manhattan.  This week, a Florida businessman and supporter of Jeb Bush, Manny Fernandez, received a letter threatening a lawsuit from Mr. Trump’s corporate counsel over a full-page ad that Mr. Fernandez took out in a local newspaper calling the developer a “BULLYionaire.” 