 Hillary Rodham Clinton doesn’t testify before the congressional committee investigating the 2012 terrorist attacks in Benghazi, Libya, until Thursday, but her allies are intensifying their criticisms of the Republican-led effort ahead of her appearance.  Her campaign has briefed people who serve as surrogates and friends of the campaign so they can be ready to respond, according to people who have received talking points about her testimony. Those talking points have repeatedly called the Benghazi inquiry, led by Representative Trey Gowdy of South Carolina, a baseless, partisan endeavor. Some of her allies have appeared on television to denounce the effort in partisan terms, pointing to recent comments from some House Republicans that linked the Benghazi committee to her sinking poll numbers. Mrs. Clinton herself has described the committee’s efforts as nakedly partisan.  And Wednesday night, David Brock, who has emerged as Mrs. Clinton’s most vocal defender, will deliver a scathing speech on the eve of her testimony, alleging that the inquiry is part of a larger, rolling effort involving figures such as the Koch brothers to discredit the candidate. Mr. Brock will speak before the World Affairs Council in Philadelphia, and an early text was provided by officials with Correct the Record, the “super PAC” that is coordinating with Mrs. Clinton’s campaign on opposition research and rapid response.  Mr. Brock, a favorite of Mrs. Clinton who also created the liberal group Media Matters, has recently gone further than the candidate herself in making her case both against the Benghazi committee and some of her rivals, including Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. But the pointed tenor of the remarks that Mr. Brock plans to give reflects how many of Mrs. Clinton’s aides have described the committee in private conversation. And he will describe a modern-day “vast right-wing conspiracy,” a phrase that Mrs. Clinton used during the investigation led by Kenneth Starr that ultimately led to the impeachment of President Bill Clinton.  Mr. Brock’s planned remarks come on the same day that Senate Democratic leaders are urging the Republican National Committee to reimburse the government for expenses incurred during the committee’s work, a request that has no chance of being granted but which depicts the group as a strictly partisan entity.  Mr. Gowdy, the chairman of the committee, has only managed to “besmirch the memory of four dead Americans while betraying the public trust,” Mr. Brock plans to say in his speech. He also plans to criticize Mr. Gowdy’s attendance record at some of the committee’s hearings, while suggesting that he rose through Republican ranks quickly as a vessel for his current role.  “Gowdy deserves to sit down to a banquet of consequences. Our country simply cannot function if this is how one of the two major political  parties chooses to compete for power,” Mr. Brock plans to say, adding that Mr. Gowdy should “resign immediately.”  Jamal Ware, a spokesman for the Republicans on the committee, dismissed the criticism, saying: “For the majority members of the Benghazi committee, this has always been about the four brave Americans we lost and providing the final, definitive accounting to the American people. For Clinton and the Democrats, they have never seen this as anything more than a campaign stop along the way as evidenced by their politically coordinated effort to attack the committee.” Mr. Brock will also try to portray various elements of the Republican political and financial establishment, led in part by Charles and David Koch, as coming together to perpetuate an effort, predicated on the Benghazi attacks, to destroy Mrs. Clinton’s chances of being elected president. James Davis, an official with the Koch-backed Freedom Partners, also scoffed at Mr. Brock’s claims.  “The idea that we control the Obama Justice Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s decision to investigate Hillary Clinton can only pass muster in the mind of David Brock,” he said. In recent days, Mr. Gowdy has repeatedly found himself responding to comments from his colleagues, or from a fired Republican investigator to the committee, suggesting that the panel’s work has been partisan in nature.  The committee uncovered Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was the secretary of state. Questions about her email use have surrounded her throughout her campaign, and the F.B.I. is currently examining the security of that private server.  People close to Mr. Gowdy insisted he has never met the Koch brothers, and pointed out that he was a federal prosecutor during the Clinton administration. 