 When Hillary Clinton’s campaign unveiled a stark campaign ad in early November urging a change in gun control laws, the move was seen as unusually bold for a candidate who has been criticized in the past for being overly cautious. The ad would be put into the rotation of her existing television reservations in Iowa and New Hampshire, her campaign said at the time. It was true that it went into the rotation, but the spot was broadcast on local television only six times, according to data provided by the Campaign Media Analysis Group: It ran four times in four separate Iowa media markets, and two times in two separate New Hampshire markets, Boston and Manchester. Five of those instances were on Nov. 4, a day after the spot aired. The data does not include local cable advertising buys, and it’s conceivable there could have been a handful of additional times when the gun ad ran on those stations. Still, the play for the gun ad stands in contrast to the use of 15 other ads that Mrs. Clinton has aired, which have run anywhere from 103 times in one case to 1,659 in another. Mrs. Clinton has made gun control a signature piece of her stump speech since the summer, and she has called for changes to the law in the two Democratic debates. Her advisers believe it provides a clear point of contrast with Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a state with a hunting culture. Mr. Sanders has had to defend his voting record on guns for weeks. Such a focus on gun control is far from risk-free in a general election for Mrs. Clinton, who polls show as the leader for the Democratic presidential nomination. She has been praised by some for taking on the issue as a centerpiece of her candidacy. But there is a difference between discussing the issue on the stump and broadcasting it into people’s homes. Campaign aides say that the campaign has run 20 ads in total — the Campaign Media Analysis Group count did not pick up more recent ones — and that any spot that is currently off the air could be put back on at some point.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.