 MARION, Ind. — Senator Ted Cruz of Texas had a date with a waiting car. It was the second of five stops on Monday, the eve of Indiana’s critical primary, and the event at a restaurant here had been billed as little more than a meet-and-greet. When he got back outside, a half-dozen protesters who supported Donald J. Trump were waiting across North Washington Street, some holding signs.  “Vote Trump!” one shouted. “Say something really funny!” a Cruz supporter replied. “Ted Cruz is going to win!” a Trump fan in dark sunglasses shot back. Then Mr. Cruz did something unusual: He crossed the street. With a phalanx of aides and reporters trailing him, Mr. Cruz approached his critics with a question. “What do you like about Donald Trump?” he asked. “Everything,” said the man in the sunglasses, who later refused to give his name. When the protester mentioned the Second Amendment, Mr. Cruz said he had defended gun rights in front of the Supreme Court. The man appeared unimpressed. When he mentioned immigration, Mr. Cruz was ready with a bit of opposition research. “May I ask you something?” the Texas senator said. “Out of all the candidates, name one who had a million-dollar judgment against them for hiring illegal immigrants. Name one. Donald Trump.” “Self-funding,” the man replied. “O.K.,” Mr. Cruz said, “so you like rich people who buy politicians?” The man asked Mr. Cruz where his “Goldman Sachs jacket” was, alluding to the employer of Mr. Cruz’s wife, Heidi, who took a leave from her job for the campaign. Mr. Cruz responded that he had attracted more than a million campaign contributions, with an average of $60. He was interrupted sporadically by shouts of “Lyin’ Ted” from the protester’s peers. “Sir, with all respect,” Mr. Cruz said, “Donald Trump is deceiving you. He is playing you for a chump.” Mr. Cruz conjectured that Mr. Trump would not have walked over to meet the protesters. “If I were Donald Trump, I wouldn’t have come over and talked to you,” he said. “You know what I would have done? I would have told the folks over there, ‘Go over and punch those guys in the face.’ That’s what Donald does to protesters.” The catcalls of “Lyin’ Ted!” returned. “O.K., stop,” Mr. Cruz said. “What word did I say was a lie?” “About Donald telling people to punch people,” the man said. “O.K., let me ask you, sir,” Mr. Cruz responded. “Just go home and Google ‘Donald-punched-in-the-face-protester.’ This is on national television.” The man ignored him to make a conjecture of his own: “You’ll find out tomorrow. Indiana don’t want you.” Mr. Cruz turned toward the cameras, as if making a closing argument in court. “A question that everyone here should ask,” he began. “Are you Canadian?” the man interjected. “Do you want your kids,” Mr. Cruz continued, “repeating the words of Donald Trump?” Mr. Cruz said he respected the man and believed in the people of Indiana to show good judgment. He started walking to his car. A television reporter asked why he had bothered to engage. “Because I believe in the democratic process,” he said. Did he hear anything that concerned him? “Well, there’re five of them and hundreds of us,” he said, reaching the door. “So, no.” Moments later, when the cameras cleared out, the man strolled east, crossing railroad tracks with his peers in tow. He reached for a cigarette. Mr. Cruz’s nerve had surprised him, he allowed, but failed to impress him. “Anything that Donald Trump talks about,” he said, “that’s what I’m about.”