 President Trump held a rally at Pittsburgh’s airport on Saturday evening to try to shore up support for Rick Saccone, the Republican on the ballot in a special election on Tuesday to fill a House seat representing a conservative western Pennsylvania district. But he spent most of his 75-minute speech veering into other topics, including foreign policy, trade and the economy. In doing so, he made a number of false or misleading claims, including some The New York Times has previously checked. Mr. Trump has cited the $7 trillion figure several times before, and it appears to refer to an estimate of war spending that is regularly updated by the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs at Brown University. The $7 trillion figure closely resembles a Watson Institute estimate of future debt from war spending by 2053: $7.9 trillion. This would be in addition to increased veterans’ care, terrorism-prevention spending and other “macroeconomic costs to the U.S. economy.” Although that figure is not from the last “17-year period,” the Watson Institute does have a comparable figure for that time. The institute says that spending from the State and Defense Departments for overseas contingency operations — the “war-related activities” the federal government pays for to support efforts in Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq — totaled $1.88 trillion between the 2001 and 2017 fiscal years. Read more: 10 Falsehoods From Trump’s Interview With The Times Mr. Trump is correct to say that the Islamic State has been forced from 98 percent of the territory it previously held in Iraq and Syria. But he is reaping the benefits of a strategy begun during the Obama administration. Read more: Can Trump Claim Credit for a Waning Islamic State? Read more: 2018 State of the Union Fact Check Mr. Trump’s figure is accurate, but it’s worth noting that it includes about 600,000 jobs that were added in the last four months of President Barack Obama’s final term. About 2.5 million jobs have been added in the 13 months since February 2017, Mr. Trump’s first full month in office. For comparison, 2.6 million jobs were added during the last 13 months of Mr. Obama’s presidency.  Read more: 15 Claims From Donald Trump’s Speech to Conservatives, Fact Checked  Read more: U.S. Added 313,000 Jobs in February. Here’s What That Means. Read more: Should Trump Get Credit for Good Jobs Numbers? The unemployment rate for black Americans did indeed reach a historic low, 6.8 percent, in December. It then rose to 7.7 percent in January and came back down to a near-historic low of 6.9 percent in February. But the rate has been in decline for several years, decreasing steadily from 16.4 percent in August 2011 to 7.8 percent in January 2017, right before Mr. Trump took office. These figures also do not provide a sense of the racial unemployment gap, which has remained unchanged. The black unemployment rate has consistently been double that of the white unemployment rate throughout this period. Read more: Trump Falsely Claims His Approval Among Black Americans Has Doubled Read more: 2018 State of the Union Fact Check Read more: President Trump Bragged to Jay-Z About Black Employment. Is He Right? The tax cuts that Mr. Trump signed into law in December are not the largest in history. According to a previous analysis in The Times, they amount to the 12th-largest as a share of the economy. Read more: Trump Sells Tax Plan With False Claims Read more: How Truthful Was Trump in His First Year? Before His State of the Union, What Our Fact Checks Show A White House spokesman has previously told The Times that the $800 billion figure regularly cited by Mr. Trump refers to the trade deficit in goods. The Commerce Department reported an $810 billion deficit in goods in 2017, but a total trade deficit of $566 billion when the trade surplus in services is included. Read more: President Trump’s Exaggerated and Misleading Claims on Trade