 After a week of debate over whether Ben Carson really won a scholarship to West Point, Republicans have refocused the question of military service on Hillary Rodham Clinton, expressing doubts about her claim that she tried to join the Marines in the 1970s. The matter came up after an event in New Hampshire this week, when Mrs. Clinton, the front-runner for the Democratic presidential nomination, shared a story with voters about her interest as a young woman in becoming a Marine. “He looks at me and he goes, ‘Um, how old are you?'” Mrs. Clinton recalled. “I said, ‘Well, I’m 26, I’ll be 27.’ He goes, ‘Well, that’s kind of old for us.’ He says to me, ‘Maybe the dogs will take you,’ meaning the Army.” Republicans are suggesting that the story is an embellishment, as Mrs. Clinton would have been seeking to join the military in 1975, the year she married Bill Clinton in Fayetteville, Ark. The story of Mrs. Clinton’s military aspirations has come up before, as have questions about her honesty on the subject. In 1994, The New York Times’s Maureen Dowd noted that joining the military seemed to clash with the future first lady’s persona: After all, Hillary Rodham was an up-and-coming legal star involved with an up-and-coming political star. She had made a celebrated appearance in Life magazine as an anti-establishment commencement speaker at Wellesley College, where, as president of the student government, she had organized teach-ins on her opposition to the Vietnam War. “G.I. Hillary?” the Republican National Committee wrote in an email that suggested she had a pattern of fudging her biography. “Clinton’s claim that she tried to join the Marines doesn’t add up.” On Thursday evening, Nick Merrill, a Clinton spokesman, said in a statement that Mrs. Clinton “visited a Marine recruiter shortly after moving to Arkansas because she was interested in exploring options for serving in the military.”   He continued: “She did not pursue the idea further and her sole reason for visiting the recruitment center was to determine if there was a suitable opportunity for her to serve in some capacity.  Her interest was sincere and it is in insulting, but not surprising, that Republicans would attack her for this, too.” While running for president in 2008, Mrs. Clinton faced an uproar after she said that her plane landed under sniper fire during a 1996 trip to Bosnia. In fact, she was greeted by children rather than bullets. On Thursday, Senator John McCain, who was the Republican presidential nominee that year, suggested that Mrs. Clinton might have misremembered trying to join the Marines. — John McCain (@SenJohnMcCain) November 12, 2015 