 So far, evangelical voters in three states have weighed in on their preference in the race for the Republican presidential nomination. In both Iowa and New Hampshire, evangelical voters were less likely than non-evangelical voters to support Donald Trump — by 7 and 11 points, respectively. But South Carolina’s primary on Saturday was a notable change in this trend. According to the exit polls, white evangelical voters were actually a few percentage points more likely than other voters to support Mr. Trump. The willingness of evangelicals to support Mr. Trump played a vital role in his victory in the state. South Carolina has the highest proportion of evangelicals of all three states that have voted so far, making it difficult to win without their strong support. Evangelicals make up nearly three-quarters of Republican primary voters in the state. Reflecting Trump’s strength among this group, they also accounted for about three quarters of his entire vote total. In some ways, Mr. Trump’s success in attracting votes from evangelicals seems odd. He has made perhaps the least effort of any Republican candidate to showcase his religiosity. And when he has done so, it has not always gone smoothly, saying, for example, that he did not believe he needed to seek forgiveness from God. Mr. Trump also performs the worst of all remaining candidates among voters who say it is most important to have a candidate who shares their values. There is a danger, however, in stereotyping evangelical voters as a homogeneous bloc that prioritizes religious belief and religious observance above all other concerns. In fact, only 4 in 10 evangelicals in South Carolina said that the most important quality to them was having a candidate who shares their values. This number is about the same as the total of evangelical voters who place a top priority on bringing about needed change (one in four) and telling it like it is (one in seven) – the two qualities that voters associated most strongly with Mr. Trump. Over all, Mr. Trump’s strong showing among evangelicals in South Carolina serves as a reminder that these voters have multiple interests. Some of these interests will steer them towards candidates – like Senator Ted Cruz – who choose to play up their ties to these voters. But their other interests may have little to do with their religious orientation, and will sometimes be weighed more heavily in determining whom to support. David R. Jones, a professor of political science at Baruch College, is a consultant to The Times’s news surveys department. This is one of an occasional series of posts taking a deeper look at polling during this campaign cycle.
