 Updated, 2:09 p.m. | As rumors swirled Tuesday that Sarah Palin, the 2008 Republican vice-presidential nominee, would endorse Donald J. Trump in Iowa, the former Alaska governor posted on Twitter a link to a comment from her daughter Bristol slamming Senator Ted Cruz, who holds a slim lead over Mr. Trump in the polls there. — Sarah Palin (@SarahPalinUSA) January 19, 2016  “Is THIS why people don’t like Cruz?” Sarah Palin asked in her Twitter message, with a link to a blog post by her daughter under that headline.  — Bristol Palin (@BristolsBlog) January 19, 2016  Bristol Palin, in the blog item, teased the speculation about her mother’s intentions. “Is my mom going to endorse Donald Trump for president of the United States?” Bristol Palin wrote. “That’s the rumor, and I’ve been too busy with diapers to delve too much into politics these days. But the rumors were enough to cause staffers from Ted Cruz’s office to slam my mom.” She pointed to an assertion by Rick Tyler, Mr. Cruz’s spokesman, on CNN, that supporting Mr. Trump would align Sarah Palin, “a champion for the conservative cause,” with “someone who’s held progressive views all their life on the sanctity of life, on marriage, on partial-birth abortion.” Bristol Palin said that she didn’t know whether the endorsement would happen, but that what Mr. Cruz’s camp was now saying about her mother “makes me hope my mom does endorse Trump.” Mr. Trump has a rally set for 6 p.m. Eastern time in Ames, Iowa, which is being billed as a “major announcement” with a “special guest.” Despite her waning pull within the Republican Party, Sarah Palin is still a Tea Party favorite and would provide Mr. Trump with valuable currency at a moment when Mr. Cruz is attacking him over his conservative bona fides. Ms. Palin also remains a magnet of controversy and intrigue that could help Mr. Trump maximize his attention ahead of the Feb. 1 caucuses. In an effort to maintain the suspense, Mr. Trump earlier Tuesday would not reveal who would be accompanying him. “I’m a big fan of Sarah Palin, but I’m not saying who it is,” he said. “I think everyone will be very impressed.” But the Cruz campaign appeared prepared either way.  — Ted Cruz (@tedcruz) January 19, 2016 