 Donald J. Trump is holding a double-digit lead in Michigan ahead of the state’s primary election on Tuesday, but there are signs that Gov. John Kasich is gaining strength. According to a new Monmouth University poll, 36 percent of likely Republican primary voters support Mr. Trump in Michigan, with Senator Ted Cruz trailing at 23 percent and Mr. Kasich in third with 21 percent. Senator Marco Rubio is at the back of the pack with 13 percent support. While Mr. Trump’s lead is significant, there were indications that Mr. Kasich is making a late push. Across four days of polling, Mr. Trump was dominant during the first two days, but the Ohio governor came within 6 points during the final two days. “After this past weekend’s mixed bag of results, Trump appears positioned for a win in Michigan, but the race may be tightening in the final hours.” Patrick Murray, director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute, said in a statement. “Trump’s support may be dropping, while Kasich’s star could be rising.” A separate Monmouth poll shows Mr. Trump also leading in Florida, which holds its primary on March 15. Of likely Republican voters, 38 percent back Mr. Trump and 30 percent support Mr. Rubio, while Mr. Cruz and Mr. Kasich lag behind. (The poll had a margin or error of plus or minus five percentage points.) That poll shows Mr. Rubio doing better than other surveys that have found him trailing by as many as 20 points, however there are signs that some Florida voters are starting to lose faith in their senator. Much of Mr. Rubio’s strength in his home state comes from voters who have already cast their ballots, while those who have yet to vote are leaning heavily in favor of Mr. Trump. Michigan is the biggest prize on Tuesday, when Hawaii, Mississippi and Idaho also hold elections. Mr. Trump is leading among Michigan voters across income groups and with those who call themselves “somewhat conservative,” the Monmouth poll showed. He is tied with Mr. Cruz among evangelical Christians and trails the Texas senator among very conservative voters. One worrying sign for Republicans is that just 71 percent of the party’s voters in Michigan said they would vote for Mr. Trump in a general election if he is their nominee, and 9 percent said they would instead vote for Hillary Clinton. On the Democratic side, Mrs. Clinton also holds a 13-point lead in her race against Senator Bernie Sanders, topping him by a margin of 55 percent to 42 percent. Mr. Sanders continues to do better with younger voters, but as Mrs. Clinton continues to rack up delegates, half of Mr. Sanders’s supporters expect that she will ultimately be the nominee. Monmouth’s poll in Michigan had a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points for Republicans, and plus or minus six points for Democrats. 