 Updated, 10:42 a.m. | Impatience with Donald J. Trump’s unusual style of interviewing — calling in by phone and talking over the anchors asking him questions — earned him an on-air rebuke on Tuesday from Joe Scarborough of MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” program. After Mr. Trump repeatedly interrupted questions about his plan to ban Muslim immigration from the co-host Mika Brzezinski, Mr. Scarborough scolded Mr. Trump for not allowing the hosts to ask the candidate questions and, finally, threatened to send the program into a commercial break if Mr. Trump did not stop speaking. “Go to break, go to break right now,” Mr. Scarbourough eventually demanded. When Mr. Trump kept talking, Mr. Scarborough interrupted him: “Hold on, Donald. You got to let us ask questions. You can’t just talk.” Mr. Trump kept talking anyway. “I’m not just talking,” he said. As the exchange intensified, a clearly displeased Mr. Scarborough repeatedly tried to stop Mr. Trump from speaking over him. “Go to break, then, Joe,” Mr. Trump said, tauntingly. So Mr. Scarborough did. The segment abruptly ended. After the commercial, the program returned with Mr. Trump still on the phone, tamer this time, answering questions from the hosts of “Morning Joe.” The testy exchange punctuated a busy morning in which Mr. Trump defended his new policy as a necessary cure for the growing threat of terrorism. Anticipating the criticism, Mr. Trump compared his plan with former President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s proclamations during World War II that labeled Germans, Italians and Japanese “enemy aliens” who could be detained in the United States. Mr. Trump referenced the proclamations specifically, noted that people were stripped of naturalization proceedings and not allowed to use radios and flashlights and praised Mr. Roosevelt in an interview with ABC’s “Good Morning America” program. “Look at what F.D.R. did many years ago,” Mr. Trump said, “and he’s one of the most respected presidents.” The Republican presidential candidate stopped short of endorsing the internment camps, in which Americans of Japanese descent were sent, but he declined to say if he thought such a program was morally wrong. Mr. Trump sounded increasingly anxious about the prospect of another attack and said the measure he was proposing was necessary to prevent more events like the bringing down of the World Trade Center twin towers in 2001. He offered few details about how his plan would work, other than to say that American Muslims would be able to leave the country and return, but that travelers would be asked if they are Muslim when trying to enter the United States, and those who answered affirmatively would be turned away. He said he hoped it would be a temporary measure until the United States can “figure out what’s going on.” “We have people in this country that want to blow up our country — you know it and so do I,” Mr. Trump said. “They’re looking at the jihad. They want a jihad.” 