 DES MOINES — The tall man arrived at the house around noon, bending slightly to avoid a ceiling beam, and smiled at the sight of two dozen Hillary Clinton supporters in a sunlit living room. “Hello!” Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York called out, as the requests for photos commenced. The mayor of New York City is a peculiar sight here. One volunteer, perplexed, sidled up to an observer and asked, “Who is that guy? I don’t recognize his face.” But on Saturday, Mr. de Blasio — who is volunteering his time here this weekend to support Mrs. Clinton, his fellow Democrat and former boss — seemed right at home. In an un-mayoral uniform of frayed jeans and winter boots, Mr. de Blasio appeared to be channeling his more obscure years as a campaign organizer. “Everyone I’ve talked to just in the last 24 hours says this is going to be a close election,” Mr. de Blasio told the Clinton troops. “What I really appreciate is every one of you, every one I’ve talked to, feels they’re in a fight — which I think is fantastic — is really ready to win each vote.” The mayor, who hesitated to endorse Mrs. Clinton last year, is not appearing with the former secretary of state during his weekend stay in Iowa. His aides have also sought to keep his activities discreet. The canvassing event was held in Beaverdale, a Des Moines neighborhood, at the home of Brad Anderson, a Democratic consultant and friend of one of the mayor’s top strategists, John Del Cecato. A reporter for The New York Times learned of the event, which was not publicized by the de Blasio team. In his remarks, Mr. de Blasio sought to emphasize Mrs. Clinton’s foreign policy know-how, a slight shift from his usual focus on social issues like easing income inequality, which her opponent, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, has emphasized. “Is this a national security election or an income inequality election? Well, it’s both,” the mayor said, before using some of his favorite adjectives to praise Mrs. Clinton. “Her understanding of the world around us is unparalleled,” Mr. de Blasio said. “I literally believe that no one will walk in the door at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue with a deeper understanding of the global situation, in the history of this country. No one will walk in with more grounding than Hillary has had. No one will walk in the door more prepared to be president.” Mr. de Blasio, who managed Mrs. Clinton’s 2000 campaign for United States Senate in New York, recalled an initial meeting with her in 1999. “I was blown away the very first time I sat down with her,” the mayor said. Mr. de Blasio earned his share of nods and responses of “yes” from the small crowd. He and his wife, Chirlane McCray, who stood by his side during the speech, posed for pictures before setting off into the neighborhood, canvassing papers in hand.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.