 Donald J. Trump may have lost his grip on Iowa, as the second poll in two days shows the billionaire Republican presidential candidate trailing Ben Carson in the state that kicks off the nominating process. A new Des Moines Register/Bloomberg Politics poll shows Mr. Carson with support of 28 percent of the likely participants in Iowa’s Republican caucuses, with Mr. Trump at 19 percent. In August, Mr. Trump was leading Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon, 23 to 18. The poll has a margin of error of five percentage points. Mr. Trump frequently parades his strong poll numbers as a top qualification, raising questions about how he will respond if a string of polls show his support falling. In an interview with the Fox Business Network on Thursday, he maintained that he was not worried. “We’ll see what happens, but certainly, we have a long road to go,” he said. Friday’s survey, which follows a poll from Quinnipiac University on Thursday that showed Mr. Carson overtaking Mr. Trump in Iowa, revealed the challenges that the real estate mogul and reality television star faces in courting evangelical Christian conservatives. Only 32 percent said they were sure that Mr. Trump is a committed Christian, while 62 percent said they found it attractive that Mr. Carson was guided by his faith. Among the other Republican candidates, Senator Ted Cruz comes in third place at 10 percent, while everyone else remains stuck in single digits. On the Democratic side, Hillary Rodham Clinton topped Senator Bernie Sanders, 48 to 41 percent. Mr. Carson’s recent comments suggesting that a Muslim should never be president and that the Holocaust could have been prevented if the Jewish people in Germany were armed appealed to Iowans, while Mr. Trump’s attacks on his fellow Republicans appeared to be starting to wear thin. Mr. Trump offered his first retraction of the campaign on Thursday, apologizing on behalf of an intern who resent on Twitter an insult linking Iowans’ political behavior to the corn they eat. However, he has been working to show Iowans that religion is important to him by carrying his Bible to events and telling them how much he loves Christmas. “I’m a good Christian,” Mr. Trump said in Iowa this week. “If I become president, we’re gonna be saying Merry Christmas at every store.”