 Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont did his best on Sunday to avoid talking about comments made by one of his supporters, the actress Rosario Dawson, who invoked Monica Lewinsky at a rally for Mr. Sanders this weekend. Ms. Dawson created some controversy Saturday when she referenced Ms. Lewinsky, the former White House intern who had an affair with President Bill Clinton. Though Ms. Dawson was talking about cyberbullying and about being under pressure to support Hillary Clinton, the Clinton campaign has called the comment “vitriol.” “We are literally under attack for not just supporting the other candidate,” Ms. Dawson said while introducing Mr. Sanders in Wilmington, Del. “Now, I’m with Monica Lewinsky with this. Bullying is bad. She has actually dedicated her life now to talking about that. And now, as a campaign strategy, we are being bullied, and, somehow that is O.K. and not being talked about with the richness that it needs.” On Sunday, Jake Tapper of CNN questioned Mr. Sanders about Ms. Dawson’s comments. “One of your high-profile surrogates, actress Rosario Dawson, invoked Monica Lewinsky at one of your rallies,” Mr. Tapper said. “Do you think it’s appropriate for your surrogates to be talking about Monica Lewinsky on the campaign trail?” Mr. Sanders, however, declined to speak about the reference to Ms. Lewinsky and instead expressed support for Ms. Dawson. “Rosario is a great actress, and she’s doing a great job for us,” he said. “And she’s been a passionate fighter to see that we increase the voter turnout, that we fight for racial, economic, environmental justice.” He added: “What our job right now is to contrast our views compared to Secretary Clinton. That’s what a campaign is about.” When Mr. Tapper pressed the senator on the Lewinsky reference, Mr. Sanders said he had no idea “in what context Rosario was talking about her.” He then pivoted, saying he hoped “all of our people focus on the real issues facing working people,” and began talking about income inequality and climate change. Nick Merrill, spokesman for the Clinton campaign, later told CNN that their campaign would “absolutely not” address Ms. Dawson’s comments. “You could ask the Sanders campaign why they encourage this vitriol in the vicinity of their candidate by staying silent,” Mr. Merrill told the network.