 BURLINGTON, Vt. — Hours before Donald J. Trump was set to hold a rally in the Flynn Center here, a crowd of supporters, hecklers and curious observers braved freezing temperatures to get a glimpse of the Republican presidential candidate who dared to set foot on the traditionally liberal turf of Senator Bernie Sanders. Wearing “Make America Great Again” hats and hoodies, dozens of people — some of whom had arrived as early as 4:30 a.m. — snaked around the block along Burlington’s Main Street in the hope of getting one of the theater’s 1,400 seats. The Trump campaign distributed more than 20,000 tickets to the event, sending the theater’s administrators and the local police department into a frenzy on how to handle the huge overflow. Those bundled up outside just wanted to see the billionaire businessman in the flesh. Surprisingly, some were fans of both Mr. Trump and Mr. Sanders, the Vermont senator seeking the Democratic nomination, and were trying to decide which one to back. “I think he’s smart, and he has the best chance of winning support and maybe flipping the state,” Daniel Nadeau, 22, of St. Albans, Vt., said of Mr. Trump. “Bernie is my No. 1 choice, and Trump is No. 2. They’re not that different.” Voters who were on the fence between the seemingly polar-opposite candidates said that both communicated well with working-class people and made strong cases for how they would boost the economy, despite their differing policy ideas. “I’m a Trump guy, but I do like Bernie,” said Peter Vincenzo, 59, who works installing hardwood floors and traveled from Ohio for the rally. “There are a lot of parallels between these two guys. There’s a populist appeal that comes with both of them.” Not everyone was undecided. Mark Conrad arrived at dawn to camp out next to the theater and join what he expected would be a throng of protesters. The lifelong Democrat and supporter of Mr. Sanders feared that he might not get a chance to confront Mr. Trump directly because of a shortage of seats. Others just showed up to absorb the spectacle of it all. “I’m just so glad to be part of the eye of the hurricane that Trump is bringing to Burlington by coming to the seat of Bernie’s power,” said Jake Blend, 37, who was shivering in a Pac-Man sweatshirt and red beanie hat. “This is like ‘Lord of the Rings.'”