 MANCHESTER, N.H. — Jeb Bush on Tuesday outlined his plan to overhaul Social Security at a forum here hosted by AARP. He gave a stump speech focused on protecting the nation from the threat of Islamic terrorism. He answered voter questions on topics including the Iran nuclear deal and immigration. But no matter what he said or promised to do, Mr. Bush couldn’t escape the specter of Donald J. Trump, whose bombastic, colorful candidacy has overshadowed Mr. Bush’s more earnest, policy-focused campaign, and who dominated the airwaves once again this week with his call to block Muslims from entering the country. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Bush — who on Monday called Mr. Trump “unhinged” — said that the billionaire developer’s most recent proposal simply helps “his buddy, Hillary Clinton, for sure.” “I don’t think Donald Trump is serious, and what he’s saying isn’t a serious plan,” Mr. Bush said. “I just don’t believe that Republicans are going to buy this language that guarantees that Hillary Clinton has a far better chance of winning.” But after being pressed on Mr. Trump, Mr. Bush flashed a note of exasperation. “I’ve just laid out comprehensive plans to destroy ISIS,” he said, “and to deal with the refugee challenges and to deal with our entitlement problems and our tax code and all this, and he’s playing you guys like a fine Stradivarius violin. This is what he does. He’s an expert at this. He’s phenomenal at garnering attention.” Mr. Bush could use some attention of his own, especially in New Hampshire, a state his supporters say will be critical if he is to revive his faltering candidacy.  A top finish here in the Feb. 9 primary, they say, would allow him to leverage his large campaign organization and financial advantage (the “super PAC” supporting him, Right to Rise, has raised over $100 million) to catapult him as the voting gets underway nationally. And so on Tuesday, Mr. Bush made his 16th visit to the state this year, kicking off a three-day swing here. Despite slowly growing into a more agile campaigner, Mr. Bush has continued to languish in the single-digits in polls. A  CNN/WMUR poll released on Tuesday of likely voters in the New Hampshire primary had Mr. Bush at 8 percent, and another CNN poll placed him even lower nationally, at just 3 percent. His aides, supporters and donors have argued that New Hampshire voters will be receptive to a more establishment candidate like Mr. Bush, who is increasingly trying to position himself as a serious leader who can take on the threat of the Islamic State and terrorism. On Tuesday, Mr. Bush made the pitch himself, complimenting the “discerning voters” here. “As you get closer to the election, my belief, my guess, is that you are going to want to know who is going to sit behind the big desk, not necessarily who is fueling my frustrations,” he said. “At some point we are going to transfer that to who can make the tough decisions so my frustrations can subside.” But Mr. Bush still faces significant challenges in the state. The crowded field, with several moderate Republicans all vying for the same pool of voters, could make it tough for any one candidate to break out, and Mr. Trump has also commanded an outsize share of the state’s news media and voter attention. A common refrain among Bush donors seems to hinge on a combination of wishful thinking and forces outside their control.  If several of Mr. Bush’s immediate rivals, like Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, drop out — which seems unlikely before the New Hampshire primary — Mr. Bush would finish near the top here, donors say. At a gathering of Bush donors in Miami over the weekend, Mr. Bush’s team sounded a similar note, presenting internal polling that showed that in New Hampshire, where terrorism and national security are the top issues, Mr. Bush remains “within the margin of error competing for second place.” Mr. Bush received a blow recently when Mr. Christie picked up the endorsement of The New Hampshire Union Leader, an influential newspaper in the state. “Governor Christie and Governor Kasich and Senator Rubio are all threats to Governor Bush, and conversely, Governor Bush and Governor Kasich and Senator Rubio are all threats to Governor Christie,” said Steve Duprey, a Republican National Committee member from New Hampshire, who has not endorsed a candidate.  “It’s a brawl. It’s a village-by-village brawl.” And the Bush team is doing its best to stay competitive. This month, the campaign added eight paid staff members and four regional offices in the state, bringing its total to 20 paid staff members and five offices. Mr. Bush’s campaign recently went on the air here with an ad featuring Medal of Honor winners talking about why they think Mr. Bush would be the best commander in chief. And Right to Rise announced a roughly $3.7 million buy for two ads that will run in the four early-voting states, as well as nationally on Fox News, including one that attacks Mr. Bush’s rivals as unprepared to occupy the Oval Office.   The group also recently produced a 15-minute documentary introducing Mr. Bush to voters that will be shown both online and on the New England Sports Network. But one reporter’s question on Tuesday — Would he consider dropping out for the sake of his party to help prevent Mr. Trump from winning the nomination? — underscored Mr. Bush’s new reality.   “I’m running to win,” he said, with grim determination. “I’m running to win.”