 Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont spent Friday crisscrossing Nevada, holding rallies in three cities hundreds of miles apart and making his final pitch to voters on the eve of the state’s Democratic caucuses. Flying on a chartered plane, Mr. Sanders, accompanied by his wife, Jane, and a stepdaughter, Heather Titus, held events in Elko, Sparks and Henderson. Mr. Sanders began his day at Elko High School, where he spoke to hundreds of people in a gym about his plans to overhaul the campaign finance system, increase wages and regulate Wall Street. Mr. Sanders boasted that his campaign had defied expectations in the last few weeks, alluding to the fact that he lost to Hillary Clinton by a small margin in Iowa and beat her in New Hampshire by double digits. “The world has changed a lot in the last three months, because what we are doing is treating the American people with intelligence and we are raising the real issues that are on the hearts and minds of every American,” Mr. Sanders said. “I hope we have a very large, very very large, voter turnout tomorrow. Show the world that democracy is alive and well here in Nevada.” In an effort to motivate his base, Mr. Sanders also asked young supporters in Elko to stress to their friends the importance of voting. The senator said Nevada could potentially play a “leading role” toward moving America to a political revolution that would transform the distribution of wealth and tackle income inequality. After the meeting, Mr. Sanders had breakfast at the Coffee Mug Family Restaurant in Elko with his wife, stepdaughter and her husband, Marc Titus. Mr. Sanders’s campaign on Friday also repeated calls for Mrs. Clinton to release the transcripts of speeches she gave on Wall Street. During a debate this month, Mrs. Clinton said she would “look into” releasing the transcripts of all her paid speeches. “I don’t know the status,” she said when asked, “but I will certainly look into it.” On Friday, Michael Briggs, a spokesman for Mr. Sanders, said in a statement that he hoped “Secretary Clinton keeps her word and releases the transcripts of her speeches.” “We hope she agrees that the American people deserve to know what she told Wall Street behind closed doors,” Mr. Briggs said. In Sparks, Mr. Sanders reiterated his support for comprehensive immigration reform with a path toward citizenship for undocumented immigrants, for criminal justice reform aimed at lessening discrimination toward blacks and for pay equity for women workers. “I’m confident we are going to do well here tomorrow,” Mr. Sanders told the cheering crowd of 2,800 people. On Friday night, Mr. Sanders returned to Las Vegas and visited members of the powerful Culinary Workers Union Local 226 as they ate in the employee cafeteria at Caesars Palace, shaking hands and giving out hugs. — Yamiche Alcindor (@Yamiche) February 20, 2016  Hillary Clinton visited union members working the overnight shift in the hotel’s laundry room early Thursday morning. The union has decided not to endorse any candidate in the caucuses.