 MACON, Ga. — Donald J. Trump was in full insult mode at a campaign rally here on Monday night as he egged on a man who called President Obama a “dumbass” and lit into Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont — “may he rest in peace” — as well as Hillary Clinton and several fellow Republican candidates. But hold up, folks: He jokes! He kids! Mr. Trump, in defending some of his recent jabs before making new ones, resorted to the old trick of suggesting that anyone who took offense at his remarks simply didn’t have a sense of humor. Speaking to a friendly crowd of several thousand people in Macon Coliseum, Mr. Trump contended that he was simply telling “jokes” when he mocked Ben Carson’s oft-told tales about his violent youth and a New York Times reporter’s physical disability. “We can’t tell any more jokes, you know,” said Mr. Trump, the leading Republican presidential candidate in many opinion polls. Referring to news media coverage of those earlier comments, he continued: “They do whatever they can to make you look bad. So what I’m going to do, I’m not going to tell any more jokes, I’m not going to kid.” The crowd began to boo, as Mr. Trump surely knew they would. “O.K., so I will,” he said of resuming his “jokes,” and then did so. As Mr. Trump was hammering Mr. Obama over his strategy against the Islamic State, a man in the crowd shouted that the president was a “dumbass,” which stopped Mr. Trump cold. “I didn’t say it. I didn’t say it,” he repeated, before egging the man on: “Go ahead, say it again — louder.” The man shouted the word again. Mr. Trump, clearly amused, said, “They’re very rude in Georgia. You heard what he said.” Later he argued that the crowds at his campaign rallies were larger than those for Mr. Sanders, and could not resist taking a swipe — a non sequitur if there ever was one, but that’s Mr. Trump’s style. “May he rest in peace,” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Sanders, who had a medical procedure on Monday to repair a hernia. “You know he had an operation today. I think it was a hernia operation. You know? You know why? Carrying around too much tax problems,” he said, referring to Mr. Sanders’s proposals to raise taxes. Mr. Trump also took shots at Mrs. Clinton, saying she should have been indicted over the Clintons’ failed Whitewater real estate venture in the 1980s. He also slammed the news media and particularly CNN, saying he might not participate in a future debate on the cable channel because some of its staff members did not “treat me properly.” And he said that Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, a fellow Republican candidate who has been highly critical of him, was a “total stiff,” and he criticized several other Republican rivals as losers or laggards in the polls, predicting that they would attack him because “there’s only one way to the top and it’s all through Trump.” “If somebody hits me, I’m going to hit them back so hard,” Mr. Trump said. “I’m going to hit them back 10 times as hard, which is what we should be doing with ISIS.” The crowd broke into chants of “U.S.A., U.S.A.” Mr. Trump beamed. He had whipped them into a lather. His tough talk had worked — all joking aside, of course.