 Donald J. Trump has mockingly accused Sheldon Adelson, a casino developer and one of the biggest Republican megadonors, of wanting a “puppet” to back when it was reported that Mr. Adelson was considering throwing his support to Senator Marco Rubio.  But Mr. Trump, many weeks ago, called Mr. Adelson to talk about the state of the race, according to a person told of the discussion, who asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to characterize the conversation publicly.  Mr. Adelson has told associates in the weeks since that conversation, which took place over the summer, according to the person briefed, that he considered the outreach an effort by Mr. Trump to secure his support.  Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, said he could neither confirm nor deny any private conversations that Mr. Trump might have had. A spokesman for Mr. Adelson did not respond to requests for comment.  During the conversation, the person briefed on the discussion said, Mr. Adelson told Mr. Trump that his most important issue when considering a candidate is the safety of Israel. Mr. Trump then emphasized his personal and family ties to the Jewish community in New York. Mr. Adelson could be a troublesome foe for Mr. Trump, or anyone, should he line up behind a rival candidate. He spent more than $20 million backing the former House Speaker Newt Gingrich’s presidential bid in 2012.  But when a report in Politico late last month indicated that Mr. Adelson was leaning toward Mr. Rubio, Mr. Trump took to Twitter, his preferred medium, and wrote: “Sheldon Adelson is looking to give big dollars to Rubio because he feels he can mold him into his perfect little puppet. I agree!”  Mr. Adelson remains uncommitted to a  candidate, and people with whom he has spoken recently say he is not immediately planning on an endorsement. But Mr. Adelson is known as being  mercurial about his political leanings. Mr. Trump has lambasted his rivals, repeatedly, for having “super PACs” that support their campaigns and for seeking support from major donors. He has insisted he is funding his own campaign. But Mr. Trump has spent just $2 million of his own money so far, while raising $4 million in contributions.  Earlier this summer, a “super PAC” was created by an operative with ties to Mr. Trump’s campaign manager. There were discussions within Mr. Trump’s campaign early on about sending a trusted adviser to the group to steer it, but those were abandoned. After the Washington Post raised questions about an overlap between the “super PAC” and the campaign, Mr. Trump disavowed the outside group, and the Colorado-based operative who was running it abruptly closed it. 