 Join us for New York primary live updates. The candidates will fan out across New York State on Monday, the eve of the primary: Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont is holding an evening rally in Hunters Point, Queens, while Hillary Clinton will address supporters in Midtown Manhattan. The Republicans are campaigning in farther-flung locales, with Donald J. Trump in Buffalo and Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio visiting Syracuse and Schenectady. The Democratic and Republican front-runners — Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Trump — appear securely in the lead in New York. But there’s real suspense on both sides, as their challengers seek to emerge from the state with a face-saving prize: a cache of delegates or at least a symbolic victory that would vindicate the resources they plowed into such a big, expensive and politically dangerous state. For Mr. Sanders, that might mean making real inroads with nonwhite voters, and perhaps winning a borough or two in New York City to show that he can attract groups beyond his base of populist, liberal whites. He has focused heavily on downstate New York, despite his seemingly more natural appeal in rural areas and economically distressed upstate towns. Mrs. Clinton is closing with an event aimed at the enthusiastic constituency of New York City women, speaking in Midtown Manhattan alongside Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, Gabrielle Giffords and Cecile Richards, the president of Planned Parenthood. For the Republicans, the goal here has always been denying Mr. Trump a clean sweep of the state’s 95 delegates. But the strategy for achieving that has never been clear. Mr. Kasich and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas have spent days campaigning in New York City. But the city is one of Mr. Trump’s apparent strongholds, along with Long Island and Western New York, where he is spending Monday evening. Mr. Kasich’s visit to urban areas upstate is a belated foray into a sector of the state where Mr. Trump might have been genuinely vulnerable, had his opponents invested their time and money heavily. Mr. Cruz, for one, has seemed to recognize the limitations of campaigning in New York. He was scheduled on Monday to visit two states that vote next week instead, Maryland and Pennsylvania, with only an evening fund-raising event planned for Manhattan.