 BERLIN, N.H. — Jeb Bush took a direct jab at Gov. Chris Christie’s economic stewardship of New Jersey on Tuesday as he campaigned in New Hampshire, a sign of Mr. Bush’s growing anxiety about the rising stature of a rival whose campaign once seemed doomed. “I would say it’s the record of accomplishment — my record in Florida compared to his,” Mr. Bush said in an interview with The Huffington Post. “When people look at it, I’m a reform-minded conservative that got to do big things,” Mr. Bush said. “He didn’t. He hasn’t. We were triple-A bond-rated. He’s had credit downgrades. We led the nation in job growth. New Jersey hasn’t done as well.” Later, speaking to reporters after a town-hall-style event here, Mr. Bush was asked to elaborate on the differences between him and Mr. Christie. “My record is a conservative record of cutting taxes, shrinking the government, receiving a credit upgrade to triple-A, reforming our education system in a way that is transformational — a model for other countries, other states,” Mr. Bush said. “That’s a record of a serious conservative.” “Across the spectrum, I don’t think anybody could deny the fact that I am the most conservative reform-minded candidate running for president of the United States based on my record,” he concluded. When asked if Mr. Christie had achieved similar successes in New Jersey, Mr. Bush was blunt: “No, no, he hasn’t,” he said. Mr. Bush spoke on the same day that a new national survey by Quinnipiac University showed him trailing Mr. Christie. The two men are vying for space in a crowded “establishment lane” of candidates in New Hampshire, a primary that has become a jump ball while Donald J. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz are leading the polls in Iowa. The fiscal situation in New Jersey has long been viewed by political observers as an weak spot for Mr. Christie, as the state has endured record credit downgrades and a major budget crisis during his tenure. He has blamed circumstances beyond his control, such as the damage caused by Hurricane Sandy in October 2012. Samantha Smith, a spokeswoman for Mr. Christie, did not name Mr. Bush in her response, but she defended the governor’s record. “With a Democratic-controlled Legislature fighting him every step of the way, not only has Governor Christie been a leader in securing landmark reforms to the pension, tenure and bail systems, but New Jersey just reported the strongest private-sector job growth the state has seen in 15 years with the unemployment dropping nearly in half since Christie came into office to 5.3 percent,” she said. “We’ll defend that record any day of the week.”