 Donald J. Trump said on Wednesday night that he would travel to Israel “very soon” for a meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, for whom he filmed a campaign commercial two years ago.  Mr. Trump announced his travel plans on the eve of the Republican Jewish Coalition presidential forum in Washington, where he and the 13 other candidates are set to appear. The coalition is heavily backed by Sheldon Adelson, the casino magnate for whom Israel’s safety is a signature issue and whose support Mr. Trump had sought earlier this year.  Mr. Trump spoke at a rally in Manassas, Va., and was asked a question by an audience member about his support for Israel.  “I love Israel, and Israel is our real strong supporter,” Mr. Trump said, before adding that “my people” wouldn’t want him to say it, but that “I’m going to Israel, and I’ll be meeting with Bibi Netanyahu, who’s a great guy.”  Mr. Trump pointed out that he had filmed, at Mr. Netanyahu’s request, a campaign commercial for the prime minister’s re-election campaign in 2013.  “He’s a good man, he’s worked very hard, he has absolutely no support from President Obama — absolutely none,” Mr. Trump said. He described himself as “very, very pro-Israel.”  Mr. Trump’s spokeswoman did not immediately respond to an email seeking details about the trip. An adviser to Mr. Netanyahu confirmed that a meeting has been arranged, but did not provide a date.  Two of Mr. Trump’s rivals, Senators Marco Rubio of Florida and Ted Cruz of Texas, have already met with Mr. Netanyahu in Israel. In the late 2013 ad, Mr. Trump spoke directly to the camera and praised Mr. Netanyahu.  “My name is Donald Trump and I’m a big fan of Israel,” Mr. Trump said in the commercial, adding, “He’s a winner.”  At another point on Wednesday evening, Mr. Trump was asked about H. Ross Perot, the eccentric businessman who ran for president as an independent in 1992. Mr. Perot, the questioner noted, talked about what he would do on his first day in office.  In his response, Mr. Trump, who recently refused to rule out the possibility of a third-party candidacy if he isn’t the Republican nominee, revealed that he had closely studied Mr. Perot.  Mr. Perot, he said, “made a big mistake” in his race, recalling his decision to get out and then re-enter the campaign. “He quit, then a week later or whatever he said, ‘Ugh,’ and when he went back, it was over,” Mr. Trump said.  “You know, I watched, I studied it very closely,” said Mr. Trump, who considered a third-party candidacy of his own in the 2000 presidential race. “And No. 1, it’s really better to run as a Republican, I will tell you that. And I want to run as a Republican, and I’m leading by so much.”  As he addressed the Republican crowd, whose votes he asked for explicitly, he said: “The question was asked before, ‘Would you ever run as an independent?’ You know, I don’t want to do it. I just want to run and win as a Republican, we’re there. We’re this close.” 