 A national poll released Tuesday shows that Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton are entering the final stretch of the presidential race essentially tied, and the survey revealed a country deeply divided on a racial and gender lines ahead of the November election. A survey from CNN/ORC shows 45 percent of likely voters backing Mr. Trump, the Republican nominee, and 43 percent supporting Mrs. Clinton, the Democratic standard-bearer. Gary Johnson, the Libertarian Party candidate who is banking on late surge in the polls to be included in the presidential debates, sits in third place at 7 percent. The poll suggests that the post-convention bounces have subsided and that Mr. Trump has weathered a difficult August, in which he shuffled staff members, insulted a Gold Star family and confused voters about his immigration policy. But Mrs. Clinton continues to face questions about her honesty, and new revelations about her email practices as secretary of state have cast a shadow over her campaign. Mrs. Clinton was leading most national and state polls after the Democratic National Convention in late July, but Mr. Trump has gradually been gaining some ground in recent weeks. She still has the upper hand in most of the crucial swing states, such as Pennsylvania and Florida, that will likely decide the election. The contours of the race remain relatively unchanged, according to the CNN poll. Mrs. Clinton continues to hold large leads with women, minorities and voters with college degrees. Mr. Trump does best with men, white voters and those who did not go to college. On issues, Mr. Trump is seen as the strongest candidate to manage the economy and handle terrorism, while Mrs. Clinton wins on foreign policy and has an edge on immigration. Voters view Mr. Trump as being the more honest candidate, but they prefer Mrs. Clinton’s temperament when it comes to being best suited to be commander in chief. Last week, Mr. Trump engaged in a Twitter spat with the president of Mexico, raising questions about his ability to deal with other world leaders. But Mr. Trump, who has been moderating his positions recently, has also gained an advantage over Mrs. Clinton when it comes to appealing to independent voters. Nearly half of those queried say they would vote for the Republican nominee, while 29 percent say they would vote for Mrs. Clinton. Although the poll does not indicate whether Mr. Johnson is pulling voters from either candidate, his supporters tend to be younger and more highly educated — suggesting that they would be more likely to be potential backers of Mrs. Clinton. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points.