 Hillary Clinton, hearing criticism for her ties to the financial industry, received the critical support of Senator Elizabeth Warren on Monday for her proposal to expand the Dodd-Frank regulatory structure and urging of President Obama to veto any legislation that would weaken Wall Street regulation. “Secretary Clinton is right to fight back against Republicans trying to sneak Wall Street giveaways into the must-pass government funding bill,” Ms. Warren, the liberal senator from Massachusetts, wrote on Facebook after Mrs. Clinton published an Op-Ed article in The New York Times with her proposals to regulate Wall Street.  In the Op-Ed, Mrs. Clinton specifically called for Republicans not to defund the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which Ms. Warren previously oversaw. “Whether it’s attacking the C.F.P.B., undermining new rules to rein in unscrupulous retirement advisers, or rolling back any part of the hard-fought progress we’ve made on financial reform,” Ms. Warren wrote, “she and I agree.” As high-profile Democratic elected officials line up to support Mrs. Clinton’s candidacy, Ms. Warren has remained neutral. This month, 13 of the 14 Democratic female United States senators attended a fund-raiser and rally in Washington for Mrs. Clinton, but the headlines from the event mostly focused on Ms. Warren’s absence.  On Monday, Ms. Warren stopped short of endorsing Mrs. Clinton, but her message of support for the candidate’s Wall Street plan could do much to ease concerns that Mrs. Clinton’s deep donor base of financial executives would make her reluctant to install tough regulations. Mrs. Clinton does not support reinstating the Glass-Steagall Act, the Depression-era legislation that broke up the big banks and that liberals, and her primary opponents, Bernie Sanders and Martin O’Malley, have urged her to adopt.  “My plan goes beyond the biggest banks to include the whole financial sector,” Mrs. Clinton wrote, explaining that her plan covers the so-called shadow-banking industry of private equity and hedge funds. “We need to tackle excessive risk wherever it lurks, not just in the banks.”