 Donald J. Trump has become the first Republican candidate to take a hard swing at Ben Carson, the retired neurosurgeon who is now leading in some national polls, over questions that have been raised about his claims of a violent childhood. Mr. Trump posted a series of messages on Twitter that focused on questions raised by a CNN report about Mr. Carson’s youth, particularly an episode that he has described repeatedly, an attempted stabbing of a friend when he was a teenager. “The Carson story is either a total fabrication or, if true, even worse — trying to hit mother over the head with a hammer or stabbing friend!” Mr. Trump posted on Twitter on Thursday night. Mr. Carson has said in the past that as a violent young man he tried to hit his mother in the head with a hammer. On Friday, Mr. Trump wrote, “With Ben Carson wanting to hit his mother on the head with a hammer, stab a friend and Pyramids built for grain storage — don’t people get it?” That message referred to a BuzzFeed report about a speech that Mr. Carson gave decades ago in which he discussed the pyramids. Rather than to inter pharaohs, he said, his “personal theory is that Joseph built the pyramids to store grain.” In his autobiography “Gifted Hands” and in public statements, Mr. Carson has talked about how his faith and hard work allowed him to overcome a violent adolescence and become a successful doctor. One of his more striking accounts is the attempted stabbing of a friend who had ridiculed him, which he has told repeatedly with sometimes varying details. In a frequently told version of the episode, the blade hit the friend’s belt buckle and broke, sparing him injury. The CNN report focused on interviews with nine people who did not recall the kind of violence that Mr. Carson described. Mr. Carson insisted the knife episode happened, but said Thursday that it involved a “close relative” instead of a friend. Mr. Carson has surpassed Mr. Trump in several polls nationally and in Iowa, home to a number of evangelical voters who find the doctor’s story of redemption to be appealing. Since that has happened, Mr. Trump has increased his criticisms of Mr. Carson, a genial figure in an often caustic Republican primary whose rivals have struggled to figure out how to attack him. But Mr. Trump tends not to adhere to traditional political methods. And with his media megaphone, his attacks on Mr. Carson almost guarantee that people hear of the inconsistencies in his stories about his childhood.