 Here’s how we analyzed the Republican debate, and fact checked it. _______ As members of the Republican Party’s establishment denounced Donald J. Trump after his string of Super Tuesday victories, the four remaining candidates gathered in Detroit on Thursday for yet another face-off. These were the highlights: • And the first question, unsurprisingly, went to Mr. Trump, asking him to respond to Mitt Romney’s scathing attack against him on Thursday. The billionaire was quick to dismiss Mr. Romney, the 2012 Republican nominee, as “a failed candidate” who is desperate to be “relevant.” • Mr. Trump also got the second question, about the other major news of the week — his refusal to instantaneously reject the support of David Duke and the Ku Klux Klan. This time, Mr. Trump was ready: “I totally disavow the Ku Klux Klan,” he said. “I totally disavow David Duke.” • Things got personal — and slightly crude — quickly, when Senator Marco Rubio of Florida was asked about his recent strategy of transforming himself into Trump Lite, hitting the reality TV star with frat-boy-style personal insults. Mr. Rubio said that if anyone deserved such treatment, it was the insult king himself, Mr. Trump, but that he would prefer to talk about substantive policy. Suffice it to say, he did not get his wish. Given the chance to respond, Mr. Trump singled out a winking insult of Mr. Rubio’s — that Mr. Trump has small hands, an implication that other parts of his, er, anatomy may be similarly small. “I guarantee you, there’s no problem,” Mr. Trump clarified. • Hardly fighting words, or even a bold declaration, but in his first exchange of the debate, Gov. John Kasich of Ohio promised that he would finish first in his home state: “I will win Ohio,” he said. (Senator Ted Cruz of Texas won his home state on Tuesday, and Mr. Rubio needs to win Florida to stay politically viable.) • The fifth candidate onstage? Fox News itself, which did a real-time fact check — complete with ready-to-go infographics — of Mr. Trump’s numbers, saying the cost savings he’s laid out to reduce the total deficit don’t add up. The figures spoke for themselves, and Mr. Trump never directly addressed the inconsistencies with his math. (That said, Mr. Trump is hardly the first candidate whose lofty plan isn’t entirely rooted in reality.) • Mr. Trump is starting to sound like a general election candidate. Asked about reports that he had told the editorial board of The New York Times, in an off-the-record interview, that he might be more flexible on immigration than his public stance, Mr. Trump replied, “There always has to be some tug and pull and deal.” He was quick to add that he’s still the strongest on fighting illegal immigration, and plans to build a wall at the nation’s Southern border — but implied that he might, for instance, be open to negotiating on the exact height of the wall. “We need give and take in government,” Mr. Trump said. • And again on immigration, Mr. Trump showed signs of pivoting toward the general election. “I’m changing, I’m changing,” he said, explaining that he was “softening” his position on high-skilled workers, who he said are valuable to the nation’s economy and should be allowed to stay in the country. • Mr. Cruz and Mr. Rubio teamed up against Mr. Trump over the fact that he used foreign workers, rather than Americans, at Mar-a-Lago, his Palm Beach, Fla., club. “You argue that you’re here to fight for the American worker, but when you have a chance to fight for the American worker, you’re hiring workers from overseas and you’re making your clothes overseas,” Mr. Rubio said. The exchange ended with Mr. Cruz accusing Mr. Trump of lying, and Mr. Trump returning fire, calling the Texas senator “Lying Ted.” • Let’s just say that Mr. Kasich, who has cast himself as a happy warrior, doesn’t have a very high opinion of his remaining rivals. “I knew Ronald Reagan,” Mr. Kasich said, reprising a famous debate line with a twist of his own. “And I’ll leave it right there. You can figure that out.” • Mr. Rubio used Trump University, which is currently embroiled in a class-action lawsuit, to attack Mr. Trump, saying the students paid $1,500 and never received what they were promised. “He’s trying to con people into giving him their vote, just like he conned these people into giving him their money,” Mr. Rubio said. The Florida senator received an assist from Megyn Kelly, one of the moderators, who was quick with her own facts criticizing Trump University, including the fact that the Better Business Bureau had most recently graded it a D-minus. But, undaunted, Mr. Trump turned the attack back on Mr. Rubio, saying he was the true “con artist.” “He doesn’t go to vote,” Mr. Trump said. “He’s absent.” • During a heated exchange with Mr. Trump — “Count to 10, Donald, count to 10,” Mr. Cruz said, treating him like a child mid-tantrum — Mr. Cruz also used the debate stage to make a broad pitch to Republican voters, urging them to coalesce around his candidacy. “Come join us, we welcome you to our team,” Mr. Cruz said, noting that he has finished ahead of Mr. Trump in five nominating contests so far, the only candidate to have done so that many times. “If you don’t want him to be the nominee, I ask you to stand with us as a broad coalition of people who believe in the Constitution, who believe in freedom.” • A back-and-forth over Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., whom many Republicans blame for upholding portions of President Obama’s health care law, quickly devolved into an amusing insult-off between Mr. Cruz and Mr. Trump. “Donald has a tenuous relationship with the truth,” Mr. Cruz said. “Breathe, breathe, breathe.” “Lying Ted,” Mr. Trump countered. Mr. Rubio then injected a bit a humor, pointing at his rivals and asking if he could answer the question “when they’re done doing yoga.” “Well, he’s very flexible,” Mr. Rubio added, referring to Mr. Trump’s previous claim that he was more flexible on the topic of immigration than previously stated, “so you never know.” • As the debate wound down, Fox News asked Mr. Trump’s rivals if they would support him, should he become the nominee. All three men gave an unequivocal yes — though Mr. Kasich also gave himself a playful plug. “I kind of think before it’s all said and done, I’ll be the nominee,” the Ohio governor said. “I’m the little engine that can.” Asked a version of the same question — if he’ll support the Republican nominee if it’s not him — Mr. Trump was first incredulous: “Even if it’s not me?!” he asked. But then he, too, said yes, committing to support the Republican nominee, whomever that may be.