 Approaching his final year in office, President Obama faces a public stubbornly divided between supporters and critics. Mr. Obama’s approval rating hovers just below 50 percent, in roughly the same middling range it has inhabited since 2010, according to Gallup polling data. Forty-seven percent of Americans said at the end of last week that they approved of his performance, while 48 percent disapprove.  At this point in their second terms, both Bill Clinton and George W. Bush saw a pretty clear verdict on their leadership, according to Gallup figures. Mr. Obama, on the other hand, continues to draw deeply divided opinions from the public. Four in five Democrats said in a New York Times/CBS News poll in November that they approved of the job Mr. Obama was doing as president. An even bigger slice of Republicans — 89 percent — disapproved. Independents were almost evenly divided. But, over all, his rating is average: 45 percent of Americans approved of Obama’s performance, and 48 percent disapproved. “These days it is harder for a president to have a higher approval rating than it was in the past, because people of the opposing view are more rigid than they were in the past,” said Frank Newport, editor in chief at Gallup. Mr. Obama cannot do much better among Democrats, Mr. Newport noted. “He’s really got to push Republicans and independents, and that’s harder,” he said. In December 2007, with a little more than a year left in George W. Bush’s second term, Americans had largely turned against him. With the country embroiled in Iraq and Afghanistan and headed into a deep recession, fewer than one in three Americans gave him a positive job rating. In a New York Times/CBS News poll conducted that month, more than seven in 10 independents disapproved of Mr. Bush’s performance. Eight years earlier, at the end of his seventh year in office, Bill Clinton enjoyed a strong approval rating of 57 percent, with just 36 percent disapproving, according to Gallup. His popularity would tick gradually upward as the Monica Lewinsky scandal receded in the public’s memory; he finished his term with approval from 66 percent of Americans, with good will stretching across many demographic divides. Ronald Reagan was still recovering from the Iran-contra scandal in December 1987, and his approval rating hung just below 50 percent. But a thriving economy eventually helped him regain the public’s confidence, and when he left office in early 1989, 63 percent gave him positive marks, according to Gallup. Mr. Obama is not likely to see this kind of late bump because of the intractable partisanship of Congress and of the electorate. With the country again tangled up in the Middle East, and the Republican Congress united in its opposition to virtually all of his policies, he is limited to waging battles that can be won with the stroke of his pen. Any landmark victories the president might achieve — joining an international commitment at the Paris climate talks to fight global warming, ratifying the Trans-Pacific Partnership, beating back Republicans’ attempts to cut social programs — are unlikely to provide him any major windfall in the court of public opinion. Upon leaving office, Mr. Clinton enjoyed approval from majorities of whites, African-Americans and Latinos, according to a New York Times/CBS News poll taken in January 2001. Men and women were united, with about two-thirds of each expressing approval. Even four in 10 Republicans rated Mr. Clinton’s job performance highly. Mr. Obama is not likely to finish with this kind of cross-demographic consensus. In addition to his thumping disapproval from Republicans, 57 percent of white voters rate his performance poorly, while 62 percent of Hispanics and 84 percent of blacks approve. And women are more likely than men to support Mr. Obama, with 50 percent approving of his performance, against just 40 percent of men. Giovanni Russonello is a member of The Times’s news surveys department. This is one of an occasional series of posts taking a deeper look at polling during this campaign cycle.