 PHILADELPHIA — After a turbulent beginning to their convention, Democrats nominated Hillary Clinton for president on Tuesday, making her the first woman to lead a major party’s ticket in the United States. They then turned to hear from a lineup of speakers that included Lena Dunham, Madeleine Albright and former President Bill Clinton, the night’s main attraction. Here are the highlights: • Mr. Clinton delivered a long, personal recounting of Mrs. Clinton’s life, offering himself up as a witness to her journey from young law student to presidential nominee. “In the spring of 1971,” Mr. Clinton began, “I met a girl.” His tale stretched from their courtship to the birth of their daughter, Chelsea, and on to her time as secretary of state. He presented Mrs. Clinton as a “change maker” and contrasted his account with the way Mrs. Clinton was portrayed at last week’s Republican convention. “One is real,” he said. “The other is made up.” _____ • Following Mr. Clinton, Meryl Streep, the award-winning actress, put a cap on the night’s march through Mrs. Clinton’s career by situating her within the arc of women who have broken down barriers in American public life. “How does she do it? That’s what I want to know,” she said. “Where does she get her grit and her grace? Where do any of our female firsts, our path-breakers, where do they find that strength?” _____ • At the end of the night, Mrs. Clinton appeared live on screen to address the convention. “What an incredible honor that you have given me,” she said, “and I can’t believe we just put the biggest crack in that glass ceiling yet.” “If there are any little girls out there who stayed up late to watch,” she added, “let me just say, I may become the first woman president, but one of you is next.” _____ • Madeleine Albright, who served as secretary of state under Mr. Clinton and was the first woman to hold the job, delivered a blistering criticism of Donald J. Trump’s foreign policy credentials. “The truth is that a Trump victory in November would be a gift to Vladimir Putin,” she said. In Mrs. Clinton, Ms. Albright said, she sees Harry S. Truman’s “fighting spirit” as well as someone who has been tested. “We also know what it’s like to step off that plane with the words ‘United States of America’ on it,” Ms. Albright said. “She knows that safeguarding freedom and security is not like hosting a TV reality show.” _____ • Mrs. Clinton has drawn support from the “Mothers of the Movement,” a group that includes the mothers of black people killed by gun violence or in incidents involving the police, like Trayvon Martin, Michael Brown and Eric Garner. In an emotional moment, three mothers who had lost children addressed the convention, while others stood with them on stage. “I am here with Hillary Clinton tonight because she is a leader and a mother who will say our children’s names,” said Geneva Reed-Veal, the mother of Sandra Bland. “She knows that when a young black life is cut short, it’s not just a loss. It’s a personal loss. It’s a national loss. It’s a loss that diminishes all of us.” _____ • The actresses Lena Dunham and America Ferrera used Mr. Trump’s own words against him. “Hi, I’m Lena Dunham, and according to Donald Trump, my body is probably like a two.” “And I’m America Ferrera, and according to Donald Trump, I’m probably a rapist.” Despite Mr. Trump’s messages to the contrary, they said, the country’s differences are not bigger than what unites it. Not only that, Ms. Ferrera said, but “the vast majority of us, we cannot afford to see his vision of America come to be.” _____ • It was one of the Republican convention’s most talked-about moments: Mr. Trump’s WWE-style entrance into the arena to introduce his wife. Elizabeth Banks, the actress, director and host of the evening, gave the Democrats a spoof of it. As Queen’s “We Are the Champions” filled the convention hall, Ms. Banks, backlit, sauntered onto the stage, slowly clapping. “The Trump campaign is so hard up for money,” she continued, “I just bought their fog machine on eBay for 30 bucks.” _____ • Howard Dean, a former governor of Vermont and chairman of the Democratic National Committee, drew a sharp contrast between Mrs. Clinton’s “poised and persistent” fight to expand health care coverage and Mr. Trump’s plan to repeal Obamacare. And then, in a self-effacing bout of thrown arms and escalating volume, Mr. Dean reprised the “Dean Scream” made famous during his 2004 run for president. “It’s going to be won in Colorado, and in Iowa, and North Carolina, and Michigan, and Florida, and Pennsylvania, and then we’re going to the White House,” he said. _____ • Former President Jimmy Carter, who was treated for cancer last year and later said he was free of the disease, addressed the convention in a video message. Mr. Trump, the Republican nominee, “seems to violate some of the most important moral and ethical principles on which our nation was founded,” he said. “We can and must do better.” _____ • Highlighting Mr. Trump’s statements about pregnancy and women’s looks, Cecile Richards, the president of Planned Parenthood, predicted that come November, “women are going to be a lot more than an inconvenience” for Mr. Trump. “Women are going to be the reason you’re not elected to be president.”