 While the default clock ticks on Puerto Rico and Congress races to come up with a last-minute financial lifeline, the frustration felt by many with ties to the island has a familiar face: that of Senator Marco Rubio. As The Times reported last weekend, Mr. Rubio, the Florida Republican who is running for president, was once poised to back legislation that would have allowed Puerto Rican municipalities to declare bankruptcy. However, Mr. Rubio, who has received financial support from bondholders who would suffer losses under the proposal, backpedaled in September and said access to so-called Chapter 9 rules should be a last resort. Although Mr. Rubio’s campaign has said that his position has nothing to do with donors, the appearance that he has been swayed has angered a major constituency in his home state. “We would be very upset if it looks like he’s defending the bondholders rather than the 3.5 million U.S. citizens on the island,” said Betsy Franceschini, Florida regional director for the Puerto Rico Federal Affairs Administration. “That’s very disappointing, and we won’t forget.” There are about a million Puerto Ricans in Florida, and if Mr. Rubio, who is Hispanic, wins the Republican nomination, they could be an important voting bloc to help him in the state. Ms. Franceschini said that Mr. Rubio should not count on the support of Puerto Ricans if he ignores the island’s crisis. “Fund-raising is important for a presidential candidate, but the people are suffering,” she said. Elizabeth Cuevas-Neunder, chief executive of the Puerto Rican Chamber of Commerce of Florida, said she thought that statehood, rather than bankruptcy, should be a priority for the island and echoed the sentiment that Mr. Rubio had not done enough. “He’s a traitor,” Ms. Cuevas-Neunder said. “He goes to Puerto Rico to do fund-raising and tells Puerto Rico he’s going to help it become a state. Like everyone else, he offered too much and delivered too little.” Mr. Rubio’s path to the nomination is uncertain, but he remains a favorite of the Republican Party establishment and is one of the few candidates with the potential to attract Hispanic voters. His ability to do so, however, could rest on Puerto Rico’s fortunes. “We were all keenly aware that he has switched positions on this issue,” said José Calderón, president of the Hispanic Federation. “It does impact the way we view the senator. It’s deeply disappointing.”