 BATON ROUGE, La. – On a detour here from South Carolina on Thursday, Donald J. Trump took aim at two rivals ramping up assaults on him there, ahead of the next Republican primary.   He anticipated the appearance of George W. Bush on behalf of his brother Jeb Bush, promising some choice words once the former president hits the campaign trail next week. But he foreshadowed an attack over President Bush’s decision to invade Iraq in 2003.    “There’s plenty to say about what happened,’’ Mr. Trump said, adding that the elder Bush brother led the country into “quicksand.” Mr. Trump saved his greatest ire for Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, divining deeply into a defense of eminent domain in response to a blistering new television ad by Mr. Cruz accusing Mr. Trump of a “pattern of sleaze” in his businesses. The ad features Vera Coking, who refused to sell her home in Atlantic City to make way for a casino parking lot Mr. Trump sought. “Heart?” Ms. Coking says in the 60-second ad, to appear in South Carolina ahead of the February 20 primary.  “He doesn’t have no heart, that man.’’ Mr. Trump defended eminent domain as necessary for public projects like roads and hospitals, even though the Atlantic City case was to benefit his private business.   “Cruz tonight took an ad that’s so false,’’ Mr. Trump said.  “It’s so false.’’  “I just hope you don’t believe the crap, because it’s all crap, they’re lies,’’ he said. Anyone forced to sell property under eminent domain is well compensated, Mr. Trump maintained, and he even offered to recommend a good lawyer. “I will make you so much money, I’ll give you a lawyer that’s so good,’’ he said. The issue is obscure compared with other national concerns this campaign season, but doctrinaire conservatives detest eminent domain as government overreach.  Mr. Trump shrugged off the need to meet a conservative litmus test. He mimicked Mr. Bush: “I do not believe he’s a true conservative.’’ “You know what,’’ he said, “in a way I don’t even care about labels. I’m a guy with common sense that’s going to make us a fortune.’’ At another point, Mr. Trump fought to show he was on his best behavior.  As he described “political hacks” in government, members of the audience competed to shout advice on whether to use nastier words. “They’re all saying, ‘Do it! Do it!’’’ Mr. Trump said, narrating for the larger arena. “A woman here is on my side,’’ he added.  “She said: ‘Don’t do it. Don’t do it.’”  “I won’t use foul language, I’m just not going to do it,’’ he said, a reference to his use of a vulgarity at a rally in New Hampshire that was widely criticized.  “Even if it’s not a bad word, if it’s a little bit off, they kill me,’’ he said.  “I’ll never do it again.’’  He spoke to a large and clamorous audience that nearly filled an arena with seating for 10,400. More than once Mr. Trump urged people to vote on “S.E.C. day,’’ meaning March 1, Super Tuesday, when many Southern states hold primaries. His political instincts were correct. But he was mistaken about the calendar. Louisiana Republicans go to the polls on March 5. 