 Donald J. Trump continues to widen his lead for the Republican Party’s presidential nomination, according to a new national CNN/ORC poll that shows the billionaire businessman in his most dominant position since entering the race last summer. The survey, released on Friday, shows a reshuffling of the pack behind Mr. Trump, with three others essentially tied for second place. Ben Carson has tumbled, and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida have gained strength. Among Republican voters or independents who are leaning that way, 36 percent say they would vote for Mr. Trump, while 16 percent would support Mr. Cruz, 14 percent would back Mr. Carson and 12 percent would pick Mr. Rubio. After a month during which terrorism and foreign policy have become the central concerns among voters, Mr. Trump’s support has climbed by nine percentage points and support for Mr. Cruz has increased by 12 points. Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon who has struggled to show that he understands foreign affairs, has dropped by eight points since the last poll from CNN/ORC (the Opinion Research Corporation) in late October. The poll, which has a margin of error of five percentage points, is in line with a Quinnipiac University poll this week that showed Mr. Carson’s fortunes fading and voters shifting to Mr. Trump, Mr. Cruz and Mr. Rubio. While there has been movement in the second tier of the field, other candidates have had little luck gaining traction. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey remains stuck with 4 percent support and former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida saw his support fall from 8 percent to 3 percent, a stunning drop for someone who was once seen as a possible front-runner. Mr. Trump’s endurance atop the pack remains the most remarkable, as he continues to rise in spite of provocative comments and questions about his honesty. By large margins, voters see him as the best candidate to handle the economy, defeat the Islamic State, address immigration and win in a general election.