 For weeks, Senate Democrats have suggested that they might not vote for a bipartisan bill to address the prescription drug epidemic unless Congress spent more money to undergird the bill. But a measure to provide $600 million in funding for anti-heroin programs failed on Wednesday. And unlike an energy bill that Democrats have stalled because they are trying to get money for the water crisis in Flint, Mich., the drug bill still looks like a go. The bill, which directs federal resources to prevention, treatment and recovery programs with proven track records, is a boon to people like Senators Rob Portman of Ohio and Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire, Republicans who come from states with huge drug problems and who face tough re-election battles. “Traveling around my state, I can’t tell you the number of stories I’ve heard from people in New Hampshire and what they are facing, and the number of lives that are lost,” Ms. Ayotte said in one of several floor speeches in support of the bill. Democrats wanted supplemental funding, just as they do to help Flint and to fight the Zika virus. But when the extra funding measure failed, the scope of the problem appears to have prevented them for making good on lukewarm threats to kill the larger drug bill. “I would vote for it with the clear knowledge that anyone who votes against the supplemental funding who tries to then take credit would be dishonest,” said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Senate Democrat. Ms. Ayotte and Mr. Portman cleverly voted for the failed supplemental funding measure, offered by Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire, who vowed to keep fighting for more money. An epidemic of prescription painkiller abuse has swept the United States, with overdose deaths quadrupling since the late 1990s. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report that opioids — which include prescription pain medications and heroin — were involved in 28,648 deaths in 2014. Some public health experts say there has been relatively little action at the federal level, with some agencies, such as the Food and Drug Administration, even making things worse by continuing to approve new opioids in a market flooded with them.