 MOUNT PLEASANT, S.C. — Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio will not be in South Carolina when the primary results come in on Saturday night. But he has already deemed his efforts here successful. Mr. Kasich, who is expected to finish toward the bottom of the pack, spent his final day of campaigning on Friday reminding voters — and the news media — how far he has come. “Basically they said all the votes we’re going to get in South Carolina you could put in a Volkswagen,” Mr. Kasich said at a rally here on Friday evening on the aircraft carrier Yorktown, a World War II-era ship. “So I’ve got news for ’em,” he added. “I don’t know how many we’re going to get, but it’s going to be at least a van where we’re going to be able to put everybody.” Speaking to reporters earlier in the day after holding a town hall meeting in Columbia, Mr. Kasich set expectations about as low as mathematically possible. He quipped that he had been expected to receive “maybe two or three votes.” He affirmed that he would exceed that showing. After finishing in second place in New Hampshire, where he courted independents and moderate Republicans, Mr. Kasich encountered a less hospitable climate in more right-leaning South Carolina. He also contended with the continuing challenge of raising his profile. “It’s been tough for me to raise money, to get visibility,” he told voters on Friday at another town hall, in Conway. “You didn’t know who I was until about a week ago, probably.” As he campaigned in South Carolina, Mr. Kasich followed the same approach that worked in New Hampshire, generally refraining from mentioning other candidates while telling voters that he was committed to campaigning in a positive fashion. Speaking to reporters in Columbia, Mr. Kasich drew attention to his consistency. “They said, ‘You’re going to go to South Carolina, you have to change your message,’ ” he said. “Has any message changed? Nothing’s changed.” He also highlighted the breadth of his coming campaign plans, ticking off a list of all the states he intends to visit. On Saturday, he plans to hold town hall meetings in Vermont and Massachusetts, both of which have primaries on March 1. When the results come in from South Carolina, he will be hosting a party at a hotel outside Boston.