 Representative Paul D. Ryan signaled on Wednesday that he would heed the call of his colleagues and run for speaker of the House. But first, he let them know of a series of conditions that would need to be met — in addition to the support of the majority of the Republican conference — in order to take the job. Herein, our translation of those bullet points.  Mr. Ryan
Our next speaker needs to be visionary: more focused on communicating our agenda and laying out big ideas. The next speaker needs to use the platform to create a clear policy choice for the country. Translation
I will go on TV more than John A. Boehner,  has and I will seem younger and more hip because I’m into metal music and intense workouts. Just not on the weekends. Catch me on Fox Business. Mr. Ryan
I favor changes to the House rules and procedures, but also believe that those changes must be made as a team. They affect everyone, so everyone should have the opportunity for input. Translation
Nope, 40 out-there guys don’t get to change rules that have been in place since before you even heard of a motion to recommit. Mr. Ryan
As part of those rules changes, I believe there needs to be a change to the process for a motion to vacate the chair. No matter who is speaker, they cannot be successful with this weapon pointed at them all the time. Translation
That’s how you ran out Mr. Boehner. You won’t do it to me. We must vacate the motion to vacate the chair. Mr. Ryan
Family comes first. And a successful speaker must be able to maintain a healthy work-family balance. Less time on the road can be compensated for with a greater focus on communicating our message to the public. Translation
If you think I am going to spend my free time raising money for knuckleheads who trash me in public as Mr. Boehner did, wrong-o! I am not going to spend the best years of my life traveling the country begging donors. Oh, and P.S., I am a bow hunter so no need to tee it up at every country club in America. Mr. Ryan
For the next speaker to be successful, we need to unify now. Unless the speaker is a unifying figure across the conference, he or she will face the same challenges that have troubled our current leadership. Translation
Go ahead and have your cute monthly meetings where the Chic-fil-A is catered in and the news media grab the leftovers. But don’t make demands on me. And you know what? If you don’t want me, I will happily traipse back to my nice digs at the Ways and Means Committee and you can explain to the country why you rejected me — a clear consensus candidate — and left the party floundering one year before the election of a new president.