 Ben Carson on Thursday canceled a trip to Israel and Africa, which was planned with the intention of improving his credibility on foreign policy, because of what one adviser said were “active credible” threats from the terrorist group Boko Haram.  Mr. Carson had planned a six-day visit beginning Dec. 27 to Israel, Kenya, Zambia and Nigeria. “Boko Haram in Kenya and Nigeria had an interest in Dr. Carson,’’ said Armstrong Williams, a senior adviser. “We certainly weren’t going to endanger his life or anybody else’s life.’’ Boko Haram is a radical Islamist group based in northeast Nigeria that has pledged allegiance to the Islamic State.  In Kenya, a different terrorist group, the Shabaab militants, who some experts suspect have links to Boko Haram, have conducted deadly attacks that singled out Christians. Mr. Carson is protected by the United States Secret Service when he travels, including on a visit recently to two Syrian refugee camps in Jordan.  Mr. Carson’s campaign manager, Barry Bennett, said in a one-sentence statement calling off the trip, which did not mention the sources of the threats, that the decision was “based on significant security concerns” in Africa.  There were “very active credible threats,’’ Mr. Williams said.  “You’re surprised because you’re going to the motherland, but hey, we’re going to stay and focus on Iowa, South Carolina and states where he need to spend more time.’’ Mr. Carson’s itinerary had called for meetings with government officials in all three African countries; a celebration in Lusaka, Zambia, of the 18th anniversary of his separating the formerly conjoined Banda twins, one of the highlights of his renowned medical career; and, near Lagos, Nigeria, a visit to a medical school named for him. A group of journalists had been offered seats on Mr. Carson’s chartered plane for $12,250.     Mr. Carson planned the trip at a time when his popularity in polls has dropped after questions about his competence to handle foreign policy. At Tuesday’s Republican debate in Las Vegas, which focused on terrorism and national security, Mr. Carson sounded vague. He seemed to justify civilian deaths in a bombing campaign against the Islamic State by describing his experience as a surgeon operating on children, and he declined to get in the middle of a disagreement between the rival candidates Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio over the National Security Agency’s data collection.   Campaigning in Iowa on Thursday, Mr. Carson, according to CBS News, said, “I think it’ll make me look smart to not go into some place where there’s a lot of danger.”