 First he sat between two ferns to be interviewed by Zach Galifianakis, then he ran wild with Bear Grylls. Now President Obama is riding in a car and getting coffee with Jerry Seinfeld. The president will appear in an episode of Mr. Seinfeld’s web series “Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee” to be released on Dec. 30, the White House said Monday. In the show, Mr. Obama and Mr. Seinfeld take turns driving a blue 1963 Corvette Sting Ray split-window coupe around the White House driveway encircling the South Lawn, and then sit in a basement dining room to chat about what it’s like being president. It is Mr. Obama’s latest foray into pop culture, following appearances last year on “Between Two Ferns,” Mr. Galafiankakis’s online talk show; a podcast interview with Marc Maron in June; and on the NBC reality show “Running Wild With Bear Grylls” this month. Such appearances are often strategically planned to promote policy issues — Mr. Obama talked health care with Mr. Galifianakis and climate change with Mr. Grylls. The president’s “Comedians in Cars” appearance, which will kick off the program’s seventh season, did not appear to have any such policy dimension. The White House said it was “an opportunity to pull back the curtain for Americans on life in the White House.  “The president and Jerry had a unique, candid conversation that focused largely on the lighter side of the presidency,” said a White House statement on Monday. At the end of a trailer for the new season, Mr. Seinfeld is shown pulling up to the White House in the Corvette, and can be heard making his trademark phone call to find his guest. “White House,” Mr. Obama answers. He then responds to Mr. Seinfeld’s request to speak to the president by saying, “Speaking.” Mr. Seinfeld can be heard gasping with laughter. “Growing up in the ‘60s my kid dream was always to be an astronaut — doing a comedy show with President Obama in and around the White House felt like going into space,” Mr. Seinfeld said in a statement released by Crackle, Sony’s free streaming network that distributes the program. Mr. Obama “was so easy and fun to be with,” Mr. Seinfeld said. “It was an unforgettable day.”