 President Obama is expected to announce executive actions on Tuesday expanding background check requirements at gun shows and online. Most Republican presidential candidates are painting this move as an overreach of his authority, but Americans’ feelings about executive actions tend to depend mostly on how they feel about the underlying policies. When Mr. Obama signed an action in November 2014 allowing certain undocumented immigrants to remain in the country, he had the support of nearly three-fifths of the country, according to multiple polls. A Marist College poll in spring 2015 showed that 57 percent of Americans approved of the executive action, which allowed millions of immigrant parents and their children to stay in the country if the parents had been in the country for more than five years and had not been convicted of crimes. (The action is not being enforced, pending a review by the Supreme Court.) This figure closely tracks the 58 percent who said in a recent New York Times/CBS News poll that illegal immigrants should be allowed to stay in the United States and apply for citizenship. They were not asked specifically about the executive actions. But many of those in the Marist poll who opposed the executive actions said they did so on procedural grounds: They disagreed with the president using executive authority to impose a new policy. Of those in the Marist poll who said that they disapproved of the executive actions, a majority — 56 percent — said they objected on principle, arguing that the president should have worked with Congress. Just 29 percent of those opposing them said they disagreed more with the policy itself. When President George W. Bush signed an executive order in early 2001 denying federal funds to international organizations that provide abortion services and counseling, 50 percent disapproved of the move and 42 percent approved, according to a Newsweek poll. Those numbers align closely with the country’s ideological split on abortion: In a Gallup poll conducted that March, 47 percent of Americans said they supported abortion rights, while 41 percent said they opposed abortion. When Mr. Obama signed an order in 2009 allowing federal funds to support stem-cell research, 61 percent of Americans supported the decision, according to an NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll. That number is almost identical to the 60 percent of Americans who said in a 2011 Harvard University poll that they felt that stem-cell research should not be forbidden. High-profile executive orders typically come when the public is deeply divided on a major issue, and gun control falls into this category. In a New York Times/CBS News poll last month, 51 percent of Americans said gun control laws should be made stricter, but 46 percent said they should be left alone or loosened. Just 44 percent expressed support for a nationwide ban on assault weapons. It was the first time in 20 years of asking the question that a majority did not back such a ban. Looking at executive orders in general, Americans tend to support their use, but not by much. Fifty-two percent support the approach at least to some degree, versus 46 percent who oppose it, according to an ABC News/Washington Post poll from January 2014. One factor that may put wind in Mr. Obama’s sails is Congress’s abiding unpopularity. For most of Mr. Bush’s presidency, trust in the legislative branch outpaced confidence in the executive, according to Gallup. But since 2010, Americans’ confidence in the executive office has widely outmatched their belief in the abilities of Congress. In September, 45 percent expressed confidence in the executive branch, against 32 percent who said they had faith in Congress. Giovanni Russonello is a member of The Times’s news surveys department. This is one of an occasional series of posts taking a deeper look at polling during this campaign cycle.