 Donald J. Trump is buying radio air time in three early states, his campaign manager confirmed, marking the billionaire candidate’s first foray into paid advertising since he began his presidential campaign in June.  The 60-second radio ads will run in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina over the next two weeks, said Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager. The ads are not expected to feature attacks on any of Mr. Trump’s rivals, despite his penchant for such criticism in interviews and stump speeches.  And they are not television ads, which are substantially more expensive than radio spots. Those are the types of ads that some political watchers assumed Mr. Trump was referring to when he told Fox News on Tuesday evening that he planned to begin small advertising buys in early states over the coming days.  The purchase for a week of radio ads usually costs only several thousands of dollars, as opposed to the hundreds of thousands of dollars that television spots could cost a campaign to air at this point in the race.  Mr. Trump is making the move after seeing his poll numbers begin to sag in Iowa and nationally, although he has maintained his lead in recent public polls in New Hampshire.  Pundits and people who have long been involved with national races have been skeptical about whether Mr. Trump would ultimately spend his own money on advertisements to try to regain his lead. Mr. Trump has ridden a wave of so-called earned media, meaning all of his television publicity so far has come at no cost to him.  It remains to be seen whether Mr. Trump will buy television air time, although his aides have insisted he is prepared to do so.  Late on Wednesday, Mr. Trump’s campaign put out a news release saying the radio buy is “valued at $300,000″ and would last through the end of November.  An independent media buyer who tracks the ad wars said that Mr. Trump’s initial spending on his ads was through Nov. 10, the day of the next Republican presidential debate, totaling just over $13,000 for 11 radio markets in the three states.  The spots were being placed by Strategic Media Services, a well-known political media-buying firm. 