 Senator Ted Cruz came under fire on Thursday after unveiling a list of national security advisers that included Frank Gaffney Jr., a former member of the Reagan administration who is now best known for holding extreme views about Islam. Mr. Gaffney was introduced as part of a “high profile” coalition of experts that will offer Mr. Cruz counsel on foreign policy. The inclusion of Mr. Gaffney, who once wrote an op-ed in The Washington Times suggesting that President Obama is Muslim, raised eyebrows among many who consider him to be a fringe conspiracy theorist. “It’s a terrible mistake for anyone to seek advice from Frank Gaffney on matters of foreign policy or much of anything else for that matter,” said Richard Cohen, president of the Southern Poverty Law Center. “His world is one of conspiracy, where the Muslim Brotherhood is infiltrating the highest reaches of our government and our country is on the verge of adopting Shariah law.” The announcement came as Mr. Cruz is desperately trying to make up ground against Donald J. Trump in the race for the Republican presidential nomination. Mr. Trump has yet to reveal who advises him on foreign policy, claiming this week that “I’m speaking to myself” on the subject. In tapping Mr. Gaffney, who now runs the Center for Security Policy think tank, Mr. Cruz is utilizing the same expert that Mr. Trump cited when proposing a moratorium on Muslim immigration last year. Mr. Trump pointed to a Center for Security Policy poll that found a quarter of all Muslims thought that violence against Americans in the United States is justified as a part of global jihad. He was criticized at the time for justifying a controversial policy with a dubious survey. Mr. Gaffney was respected for his foreign policy views in the 1980s when he rose to a senior position in President Ronald Reagan’s Defense Department. More recently, however, he has been shunned for adopting what some have called extremist positions. In 2010 he mused that the Obama administration might have morphed Mr. Obama’s campaign logo with an Islamic crescent to create a new logo for the Missile Defense Agency. The following year he was barred from the Conservative Political Action Conference for suggesting that two of its board members were working with the Muslim Brotherhood. “This alliance with Frank Gaffney shows that there is literally no right-wing activist too extreme or too bizarre for Ted Cruz,” said Michael Keegan, president of People for the American Way, an equal rights advocacy group. The Council on American-Islamic Relations, a Muslim civil rights organization, also took issue with Mr. Gaffney’s role and called on Mr. Cruz to reconsider the selection. “By choosing infamous Islamophobes as foreign policy advisers, Senator Cruz indicates that he subscribes to their conspiratorial worldview and to the anti-Muslim bigotry that would inevitably shape their policy recommendations,” said Nihad Awad, CAIR’s national executive director. “We ask Senator Cruz to drop any adviser who has a past history of promoting conspiracy theories or religious bigotry.” The Cruz campaign did not respond to a request for comment.