 ANKENY, Iowa — For nearly four minutes, Carly Fiorina clasped the hand of Brian Thielges and tried to change his mind. The Iowa businessman who came to the Main Street Cafe and Bakery on Thursday to hear her speak wants to caucus for her, but worries that his vote would be wasted. A Republican who cares deeply about reducing income inequality, he is even considering switching parties and backing Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. Mrs. Fiorina is a former Hewlett-Packard chief executive who has brokered multibillion dollar mergers, but with polls in Iowa showing her mired in single digits, she is treating every voter like the last deal she will ever close. “You know I make sense,” Mrs. Fiorina said, looking intensely into Mr. Thielges’s eyes. “Vote for me, come on, come on, come on.” Despite her best efforts, he remained torn. “I’m wavering,” Mr. Thielges said. “If she was doing better I’d caucus for her, but I don’t think she has a chance this time.” Many Iowans who came out to give Mrs. Fiorina another look only days before the caucuses on Monday said they were impressed with her presentation and thought she was warmer in person than she comes off on television. But they have become disillusioned that someone such as Mrs. Fiorina appears to have little chance of winning in Iowa, which has shown greater affinity for Donald J. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas. Kirk Martin, of Des Moines, likes Mrs. Fiorina and is excited about the possibility of electing the first female president, but he does not plan to caucus for her.  With Mr. Trump and Mr. Cruz holding big leads in Iowa, he now plans to jump from the Republican Party and support Hillary Clinton as a Democrat. “If Trump and Cruz are who Iowa is going to support, then I think Hillary is the most qualified,” Mr. Martin said. “I’m not excited about her, but I’m O.K. with a lot of her policies.” Speaking to a few dozen people in Ankeny, Mrs. Fiorina urged voters not to be distracted by Mr. Trump’s reality television antics, and she called him a baby for backing out of Thursday night’s debate. In a bid to garner some attention, she has even said that she would donate $2 million to veterans if he would be brave enough to debate her. Judy Bradley, of Newton, was turned off by Mr. Trump’s decision to bail on the debate and said she was leaning toward supporting Mrs. Fiorina. But with her favorite candidate struggling to catch on, she has soured on the caucus process. “He’s like a kid who says ‘I’ll take my ball and go home,’” Ms. Bradley said of Mr. Trump. “The winner of Iowa never goes on to win anything, anyway.”