 As her husband tried to stay on message in New Hampshire, Hillary Clinton embarked on a “River to River” tour of Iowa on Monday, with six events across the state over two days. With a new Republican-led effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act potentially up for a vote this week in Congress, Mrs. Clinton focused her remarks on her plans to preserve, but improve on, President Obama’s sweeping health care plan. “I want to bring costs down and make improvements to it,” Mrs. Clinton told a crowd in Davenport, Iowa. She also reiterated her support for Mr. Obama’s proposed executive action on gun control and reminded the audience that a Republican president could easily undo the moves Mr. Obama is proposing. “They can be undone the first day,” she said. Mrs. Clinton did not specifically respond to attacks by Donald J. Trump, but instead tried to portray the entire Republican field as offering divisive language instead of solutions. “I am disturbed by the rhetoric I hear coming from the other side,” Mrs. Clinton said. “It’s easy to tear down, it’s hard to build up. It’s easy to insult, it’s easy to criticize,” she continued. “But I don’t think you get much done if that’s the kind of rhetoric you use.” With the Iowa caucus approaching, Mrs. Clinton, who also held an organizing event in Cedar Rapids and planned a “Get Out the Caucus” event in Des Moines on Monday evening, has shifted from generically extolling the virtues of the caucus system to delivering with each selfie she snaps an impassioned plea for her supporters to show up on Feb. 1.  “I need you,” she said over and over on the rope line in Davenport. On Tuesday, Mrs. Clinton has stops scheduled in Osage, Sioux City and Council Bluffs. The campaign has dispatched surrogates including the actors Lena Dunham, Jamie Lee Curtis and Tony Goldwyn (star of ABC’s “Scandal”) and Gov. Terry McAuliffe of Virginia, a long-time friend of Mr. Clinton’s, to campaign for Mrs. Clinton in Iowa in the coming weeks. At one point, a voter asked Mrs. Clinton when Mr. Clinton would be campaigning in Iowa.  “He’ll be here,” she said. “He’s in New Hampshire today.”