 JOHNSTON, Iowa — It wasn’t quite a victory lap. Call it more of a coffee klatch lap. On Wednesday morning, hours after Jeb Bush’s much-improved debate performance the night before, the former Florida governor made his way around (and around) folding tables at a Hy-Vee here, pouring coffee into plastic cups and doing his best to capitalize on the energy from his best debate performance so far. “You’re much thinner in person,” said one woman, admiringly. (Moments later, another woman enthused that while he has “a good radio voice,” he also has a “face for TV.”) Mr. Bush politely shook hands and continued pouring coffee. That sort of caffeinated momentum — inadvertently underscored at his second stop of the day, a town-hall-style event at a Coca-Cola bottling plant in Atlantic, Iowa — is just what his aides are hoping for. On a conference call with donors on Tuesday evening after the debate, and again on Wednesday morning, Mr. Bush’s finance team — which struggled to reassure donors after Mr. Bush’s shaky performance in the last debate and plummeting poll numbers — seemed determined to capitalize on his prime-time performance. Woody Johnson, Mr. Bush’s national finance chairman and the owner of the N.F.L.’s New York Jets, urged donors to work the phones Wednesday, calling on them to raise another “five or 10 thousand.” “Get it in — it will be really, really, really impactful,” he said. And Heather Larrison, Mr. Bush’s finance director, thanked supporters for being loyal through what she acknowledged had been a “difficult” few months, and asked them to “step up, double down this next month, double down this quarter.” “What we wanted to deliver tonight was a performance that you can sell, and I think the governor delivered a good performance that you can sell, that just reinforces why he is the best candidate, why he is going to be the best leader and why he can be the president,” she said.  Nonetheless, in Atlantic, after delivering a forceful line about balancing the budget and forcing the federal government to live within its means, Mr. Bush turned to the silent crowd and, faux-exasperated, sighed, “Please, clap.” (Always Iowa-nice, his audience obliged.) Earlier, at the Hy-Vee, Mr. Bush picked up the morning’s Wall Street Journal, saying he wanted to see what the paper — a must-read among many Republicans — was saying about his debate performance. “Struggles to regroup?” he asked, reading aloud, with a snort. “What are you talking about?” Mr. Bush, on the whole, seemed to think his debate performance had sufficed to help lift him out of his slide in the polls. “I thought it was fine. I did well,” he said. “I talked about issues that are important to people. We need to start thinking about who’s the person who can beat Hillary Clinton, rather than trying to get into small differences between each campaign.” Asked his secret to debate preparation — after a devastating exchange at a debate last month with Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, the Bush team brought in an image-maker to help — Mr. Bush grinned wanly and said, “Smiling more.”