 Updated, 9:31 p.m. | DES MOINES —  Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has suffered a variety of ailments over his 74 years, including gout, diverticulitis, hernias and a cyst on his vocal cord, but he is in “very good health,” according to a letter from the congressional physician whose office has treated the senator for more than 20 years. The letter, released Thursday by the Sanders campaign, was dated Jan. 20 and signed by Dr. Brian P. Monahan, the attending physician of Congress. Dr. Monahan wrote that Mr. Sanders was last examined on Nov. 18, and had normal readings for blood pressure, pulse and blood count. He said the senator had no history of cardiovascular disease. “You are in overall very good health and active in your professional work, and recreational lifestyle without limitation,” he concluded. Mr. Sanders, who would be the oldest person ever elected president (he turns 75 in September), had been under pressure to release information about his health before the Iowa caucuses on Monday. His chief opponent for the Democratic presidential nomination, Hillary Clinton, 68, released a letter from her doctor in July that said she was also in good health. “There is nothing surprising in these medical records,” Symone Sanders, a spokeswoman for the Sanders campaign, said Thursday. “The senator is in great health, as he has previously said.” Referring to his candidacy, Ms. Sanders added, “He would not have done this if he didn’t think he was up to this both mentally and physically.” Among the ailments for which Mr. Sanders has been treated over the years are gout; mild elevation of cholesterol; an underactive thyroid gland, for which he takes hormone replacement therapy; and inflammation of out-pouches in the colon known as diverticulitis. Mr. Sanders also been treated for superficial skin cancers, lower back strain and laryngitis from acid reflux. He has had surgery to remove the cyst in his vocal cord and laparoscopic repair of a hernia on both sides of his lower abdomen, Dr. Monahan wrote. He did not list the surgery dates, but Mr. Sanders was widely reported to have had outpatient hernia surgery in November. The doctor did not state when Mr. Sanders was treated for high cholesterol. Because Dr. Monahan did not list a statin or similar drug under Mr. Sanders’s current medications, presumably the senator no longer takes such treatment. Mr. Sanders’s cholesterol level was 196 milligrams per deciliter; a level of less than 180 milligrams is considered normal. His LDL (bad) cholesterol level was 125 milligrams per deciliter; optimal is considered less than 100 milligrams. His HDL (good) cholesterol was 46; greater than 60 is considered protective. Mr. Sanders’ electrocardiogram was normal. Mr. Sanders, who is 6 feet and 179 pounds, does not smoke and uses alcohol “infrequently,” the doctor wrote. He said Mr. Sanders’s most recent colonoscopy, the date of which was not given, was normal. Dr. Monahan did not state when or how often Mr. Sanders had attacks of gout. Gout, a painful ailment affecting joints resulting from deposits of needlelike uric acid, was known for centuries as a rich man’s disease, as many patients were wealthy and had diets rich in purines (which break down into uric acid) like meats and seafood. But scientists have come to understand that gout is as much, if not more, a metabolic than a nutritional disease. The National Institutes of Health estimates that 4 percent of Americans have gout and that its prevalence has been increasing. Among politicians that have suffered from it were Presidents Grover Cleveland and William Howard Taft, and former Vice President Dick Cheney. Yamiche Alcindor reported from Des Moines, and Lawrence K. Altman from Washington.