 CHARLESTON, S.C. — Jeb Bush plans to use a long-scheduled speech at the Citadel on Wednesday to outline his vision for overhauling the nation’s military and responding to the growing threat of the Islamic State. “As we gather today, we do so with memories fresh from the atrocities in Paris,” Mr. Bush will say, according to prepared remarks provided by his campaign. “This brutal savagery is a reminder of what is at stake in this election. We are choosing the leader of the free world. And if these attacks remind us of anything, it is that we are living in serious times that require serious leadership.” Mr. Bush has been struggling to gain traction in polls in early nominating states, but the speech, aides hope, will allow him to cast himself — in contrast to Donald J. Trump and Ben Carson, two political outsiders who lead in the national polls — as a serious candidate for serious times, with a proven record of fixing things. Mr. Bush will reiterate a doctrine of “peace through strength,” popularized under President Ronald Reagan, a hero of many Republicans, and call for undoing the $1 trillion in defense cuts, known as sequestration. He will advocate increasing the size of the Army by 40,000 soldiers, and increasing the Marine Corps by 4,000 Marines. “Our armed forces need to know that support for the military is not another partisan issue, and that their commander in chief is not just another politician,” he will say. “In every circumstance, against every attempt to shortchange our military, our troops need to be certain that the commander in chief has their back.” Mr. Bush will also call for addressing the underlying conflicts in Iraq and Syria. On Sunday, on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” he said that the United States “should declare war” on ISIS. But such calls are politically tricky for Mr. Bush, whose candidacy is viewed by many voters through the lens of his father and brother before him, both former presidents. His brother, George W. Bush, invaded Iraq in 2003 after the attacks of Sept. 11, and lost public support as the conflict dragged on.  Jeb Bush has struggled to respond to criticism about his brother’s foreign policy, though when he rolled out a list of foreign policy advisers in February, it included many aides from the administrations of both his father and brother. His speech at the Citadel, a state-supported military college, will also lean on the Paris attacks last week, to create a sense of urgency for the need for a commander in chief prepared to lead the military in the 21st century.  “As we gather today, in the aftermath of the bloodshed in Paris, let it be said that this generation knew the cost of war, but also knew the even greater cost of acquiescence to an enemy with which there is no coexistence,” he will conclude. “Radical Islamic terrorists have declared war on the western world. Their aim is our total destruction.  We can’t withdraw from this threat, nor negotiate with it. We have but one choice: to defeat It.”