 Donald J. Trump was scheduled to meet with the casino magnate and megadonor Sheldon Adelson at the Venetian Hotel in Las Vegas, the site of Tuesday night’s Republican debate, according to people briefed on the meeting. Mr. Trump told The Washington Post that the meeting, scheduled for 1:30 p.m. Las Vegas time, was initiated by Mr. Adelson. “Sheldon knows that I’m in town because of the debate, and he’s been a friend of mine for a long time,” Mr. Trump told the Post, insisting that he didn’t want Mr. Adelson’s money. “He called to see whether or not we could meet, and we are going to meet.” But three people briefed on the scheduled meeting said it had been initiated by Mr. Trump and his aides, who have repeatedly sought face time with the influential donor during the year. Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, was described as the point person for the meeting by those briefed on the plans. A spokeswoman for Mr. Trump did not respond to an email seeking comment. A spokesman for Mr. Adelson couldn’t immediately be reached. Mr. Trump has mocked one of his rivals, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, as a “little puppet” after rumors surfaced that Mr. Adelson was looking to support his candidacy. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 13, 2015  But Mr. Trump reached out to Mr. Adelson to pitch himself months ago. He also sent Mr. Adelson a booklet he received after winning an award at the Algemeiner Gala this year that featured photos of himself and Melissa Rivers, the daughter of the  comedienne Joan Rivers. Mr. Trump scrawled a personal note to Mr. Adelson on the booklet, according to two people who saw it. Mr. Adelson has told allies that he was bothered by Mr. Trump’s mocking of him on Twitter. But more recently, Mr. Adelson, a heavy financial backer of the Republican Jewish Coalition, told associates that he was disturbed by Mr. Trump’s performance at the group’s candidate forum in Washington. At that event, Mr. Trump would not promise to keep Jerusalem as the undivided capital of Israel. People close to Mr. Trump have said that he is not interested in Mr. Adelson’s financial backing so much as he is in trying to keep his rival casino developer from plowing millions of dollars into an outside group backing another candidate, such as Mr. Rubio. Mr. Adelson had been rumored for months to be leaning toward supporting Mr. Rubio, but he is also said to be truly uncertain about what to do. That is in part because his wife, Miriam, has been described as favoring Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who has recently been gaining in many polls. But Mr. Adelson has also told allies that he is mindful of how damaging the battle between Newt Gingrich and Mitt Romney in 2012 was to Mr. Romney, the eventual nominee. Mr. Adelson almost single-handedly kept Mr. Gingrich’s candidacy afloat; he and his wife gave more than $21 million to a “super PAC” supporting Mr. Gingrich, the former House speaker.