 WAUKEE, Iowa – I was late to Donald J. Trump’s unannounced visit to a Pizza Ranch on Friday, his first drop-by of this ubiquitous Iowa chain that is standard stop for candidates, but which Mr. Trump has avoided in favor of boisterous crowds in big halls. I opened my briefcase and extended my arms for a Secret Service screening, then entered the restaurant crowded with Trump supporters in campaign T-shirts. There was a knot of TV cameras and still photographers, who had been bused to the location.  Mr. Trump was already speaking in a back room. Barely a minute later, I was ejected from the restaurant by a Trump staff member and a local police officer. “It’s a private event, you have to go,’’ the officer said, even though the 20 or so other journalists continued to cover the event. A Trump campaign aide walking beside the officer said I was being excluded on orders from “Chuck and Stephanie,’’ an apparent reference to Mr. Trump’s Iowa state director, Chuck Laudner, and his wife, Stephanie, also a staff member. In a text message later, Mr. Laudner said, “I didn’t even know you were there.’’ On Wednesday, The Times published my article raising questions about the performance of Mr. Trump’s field operation in Iowa, which is run by Mr. Laudner. It noted that volunteer caucus leaders were barely engaging with voters, and that a precinct captain was urging voters to caucus without knowing if they supported Mr. Trump. The article ran under the headline “Donald Trump’s Iowa Ground Game Seems to Be Missing a Coach.’’ It was not the first time the Trump campaign had excluded members of the news media from its Iowa events. After The Des Moines Register published an editorial in July calling on Mr. Trump to quit the Republican race following his criticism of Senator John McCain’s Vietnam War service, reporters from The Register were barred from Mr. Trump’s rallies. I had been issued a press pass for an earlier appearance by Mr. Trump on Friday, in nearby Urbandale, with a crowd of about 250 people. Mr. Trump said he had had “zero” sleep since flying directly from South Carolina after the Republican debate in South Carolina on Thursday night. He expressed optimism about his chances in the caucuses, which are 17 days away. Trip Gabriel has been covering the presidential campaign in Iowa for The Times since January 2015. 