 Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York,  is an admirer of Donald J. Trump and has been friends with him for decades. His endorsement could be useful to Mr. Trump, both as an affirmation in national security terms and an appeal to transplanted New Yorkers in Florida and elsewhere.  But while Mr. Giuliani speaks with Mr. Trump regularly, and has done so for months, he does not consider himself an adviser and is not yet ready to endorse any of the candidates.  “I wouldn’t call it advising him,” Mr. Giuliani said in a telephone interview on Monday after a published report suggested he has recently emerged as a key adviser to Mr. Trump. Mr. Giuliani added, “I’m not sure who I’m going to endorse,” though he said he was open to Senator Marco Rubio of Florida and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, but “not Cruz,” he said, referring to Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, Mr. Trump’s chief rival so far. Mr. Giuliani was mayor for eight years and before that the federal prosecutor in Manhattan, where Mr. Trump has been a major figure since the late 1980s.  “I talk to him on a pretty regular basis,” Mr. Giuliani said. “I don’t consider myself an adviser. I’ve talked to Donald for 25 years. So I talk to him a lot anyway.”  Mr. Giuliani said he frequently spoke with Jeb Bush when he was a candidate, about as frequently as he did to Mr. Trump, and that he spoke more frequently with Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, with whom he is also friends.  As for Mr. Trump, Mr. Giuliani said he would call and offer his thoughts and advice on a range of topics. “Sometimes he takes it, sometimes he doesn’t,” Mr. Giuliani said. He told Mr. Trump that he thought his statement during his campaign kickoff speech that Mexican immigrants were rapists and were bringing crime into the country “was backwards,” although he thought he had “a pretty good point about illegal immigration.”  He said he also still considered former President George W. Bush “one of my heroes,” and disagreed with Mr. Trump’s assertions that the Bush administration has mishandled the invasion of Iraq in 2003.  But Mr. Giuliani, who was heralded for his leadership after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and ran for president himself in 2008, said Mr. Trump had made a valuable case about China’s currency manipulation. He  said he also valued what Mr. Trump had said about the terrorism threats of the Islamic State. Mr. Trump and Mr. Rubio are “more flexible people” than Mr.  Cruz, Mr. Giuliani said. “They’re not rigid ideologues.”  He added of Mr. Trump, “You don’t succeed in business by being a rigid ideologue.” 