 AMES, Iowa – With Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont taking the lead in a new Iowa caucus poll, Hillary Clinton sharply challenged his core political message on Tuesday, saying his denunciations of big-money special interests were undercut by his 2005 congressional vote for a bill granting legal immunity for gun manufacturers – a bill backed by the National Rifle Association. “If you’re going to go around saying you’ll stand up to special interests, well, stand up to the most powerful special interest – stand up to that gun lobby,” Mrs. Clinton said at a campaign event at Iowa State University that drew about 450 people. Mrs. Clinton, who has been aggressively attacking Mr. Sanders on gun control ahead of the Feb. 1 caucuses, made her remarks as she picked up the endorsement of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, a nonprofit group that championed the federal background checks for gun purchases and the assault weapons ban. Mrs. Clinton recalled her support for those measures – and that President Bill Clinton had signed them – and also aligned herself with President Obama on his recent executive action on gun control, while portraying Mr. Sanders as an obstacle to stopping the shooting massacres that have become a constant in the United States. “Don’t talk to me about standing up to corporate interests and big powers,” Mrs. Clinton said to strong applause from the audience. “I have the scars to show for it. And I’m proud of every single one of them.” In 1994, Mr. Sanders, then a member of the House, voted for an assault-weapons ban, but a year earlier, he voted against the Brady bill that ushered in federal background checks and a five-day waiting period, before the instant background check system could be rolled out. Mrs. Clinton has been focusing on Mr. Sanders’s 2005 vote for a bill that shields gun manufacturers and dealers from most lawsuits. Mr. Sanders has explained that he wanted to protect small gun dealers who followed the law, and that he represented a state with many gun-owning hunters.  On Tuesday Mrs. Clinton even mocked Mr. Sanders at one point, mimicking his voice as she reiterated his defense for supporting the immunity bill. “He says, ‘Well, I’m from Vermont,’” Mrs. Clinton noted before pivoting to say that home-state concerns were not a sufficient explanation. She pointed out that Mr. Sanders “constantly reminds people” that she had ties to Wall Street as a senator from New York, but she then argued that she had challenged banks and hedge funds over their financial practices. Mrs. Clinton was joined on stage by Dan Gross, the president of the Brady Campaign, who also criticized Mr. Sanders and led the audience in shouting “Hillary” to credit her as the Democratic candidate who had worked the hardest on gun control legislation. Mrs. Clinton was introduced by Delphine Cherry, who lost two children to gun violence and struggled a bit with her emotions as she told her story; Mrs. Clinton gave her a long hug afterward and whispered to her at some length. Mrs. Clinton also repeated a new line of attack against Mr. Sanders over his support for a single-payer health insurance system administered by states, warning that Republican governors would damage the health care system and urging Democrats to be realistic about what changes could be accomplished. “I wish that we could elect a Democratic president who could wave a magic wand and say, ‘We shall do this, and we shall do that,’” Mrs. Clinton said, an implicit jab at Mr. Sanders’s penchant for making pronouncements without explaining how he would work with Republicans if they maintain control of Congress. “That ain’t the real world we’re living in!” She spoke as Quinnipiac University released its latest poll of likely Democratic caucusgoers in Iowa, which showed Mr. Sanders with the support of 49 percent to Mrs. Clinton’s 44 percent, a sharp reversal from last month’s Quinnipiac poll, which showed Mrs. Clinton with 51 percent support to Mr. Sanders’s 40. Mrs. Clinton is hoping that her organizational muscle will prove more decisive than the intense passions supporters of Mr. Sanders have shown recently. During her event here, Mrs. Clinton thanked some of her Iowa campaign organizers by name and asked her precinct captains in the audience to raise their hands, and later provided contact information for people to sign up to support her. At a campaign event later on Tuesday at the University of Dubuque, Mrs. Clinton continued to take aim at Mr. Sanders, issuing a direct challenge to him to explain how he will pay for his proposals, some of which she described as “pie in the sky.” “I’ve laid out a whole tax plan because I want you to know where I’m going and what I’m going at,” Mrs. Clinton told an atrium full of supporters. “My friend Senator Sanders said he would lay out his tax plan before the caucus. Well I hope he does, because a lot of what he brings up in his campaign would be very expensive.” Demonstrating that she has been paying closer attention to the details of Mr. Sanders’s plans, Mrs. Clinton estimated that his policies would end up costing as much as $20 trillion over the next 10 years. “That’s a lot of money, that would raise the federal budget by 40 percent,” Mrs. Clinton said. “You deserve to know what the differences are and then you can make an informed decision.” Alan Rappeport contributed reporting from Dubuque.