 Join us for real-time analysis of Donald J. Trump’s foreign policy speech on Wednesday. Donald J. Trump has worried the foreign policy establishment by threatening to dismantle the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and by playing down the risk of nuclear proliferation. On Wednesday, in Washington, Mr. Trump plans to outline his views in his first foreign policy speech, which his campaign said would touch on global trade, as well as economic and national security policies. The speech, which will be Mr. Trump’s first real policy address in over a month, comes as his campaign is expanding and bringing on new advisers in an effort to help Mr. Trump become more “presidential” while he tries to transition into general election mode. And Wednesday’s remarks will offer yet another glimpse of just how scripted — or not — Mr. Trump is willing to be. After Paul J. Manafort, Mr. Trump’s new campaign chief, told attendees at the Republican National Committee’s spring meeting last week that Mr. Trump was “evolving” and simply playing a part in public, Mr. Trump promptly suggested that he has no intention of “toning it down.” “I sort of don’t like toning it down,” Mr. Trump told voters in Connecticut on Saturday. “Isn’t it nice that I’m not one of these teleprompter guys?” Yet Mr. Trump plans to use a teleprompter to deliver his foreign policy address on Wednesday. The last time Mr. Trump delivered a speech using a teleprompter was last month, also in Washington, at a gathering of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee. But even then, he could not resist some off-script flourishes, at one point telling the crowd, “My daughter Ivanka is about to have a beautiful Jewish baby.” Mr. Trump will deliver his speech, hosted by the Center for the National Interest, at the Mayflower Hotel — a change of site from the National Press Club, where it was originally scheduled. “Trade, immigration and security policies are critical concerns of all Americans, and we must develop a clear, consistent long-term foreign policy for making America safe and prosperous,” Mr. Trump said in a statement last week, announcing his speech.