 As Donald J. Trump heads to Ohio to woo voters on Monday, Gov. John Kasich is not exactly rolling out the red carpet. The Ohio governor, who is vying with Mr. Trump for the Republican presidential nomination, has stepped up his criticism of the billionaire businessman in recent weeks and is warning that the party risks losing Ohio in a general election if he is the nominee. In a conference call with state lawmakers who support Mr. Kasich, the message was clear that Mr. Trump’s bellicose brand of politics is not welcome. “While the American public appears to really like it when a politician tells it like it is, these kinds of brash statements on the international stage could be extremely costly,” Peggy Lehner, an Ohio state senator, said in reference to Mr. Trump. “We cannot afford a president who has to walk back repeatedly from his own statements.” Representative Pat Tiberi of Ohio called Mr. Trump an “entertainer” and argued that he was dividing the Republican Party and the country with hateful language. “It’s not something that our party should be for and it’s not something that the American voters should be for,” Mr. Tiberi said, playing down polls that show Mr. Trump’s strong popularity among Republican voters in Ohio. The warnings come as Republicans are growing increasingly anxious about the durability of Mr. Trump’s lead atop most national and state polls. Consultants within the party have been working to band together donors who have backed other Republican candidates in hopes that they can dislodge Mr. Trump as the leader in the field. Mr. Kasich’s campaign is also gathering veterans ahead of Mr. Trump’s speech in Columbus to express concern about how he would handle national security. The “super PAC” supporting him, New Day for America, has released an attack ad recounting Mr. Trump’s “greatest hits.” The ad includes provocative remarks that Mr. Trump has made, questioning Senator John McCain’s heroism, discussing Mexican “rapists,” and making contentious comments about the Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly. Mr. Trump speaks at the Greater Columbus Convention Center at 7 p.m. Eastern. Ahead of his speech, he took a dig of his own Mr. Kasich. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 23, 2015 