 DUNMORE, Pa. — Three days after winning the primary in her adopted home state, Hillary Clinton sounded right at home again  Friday  in Pennsylvania. She talked about meeting a woman who lived next door to her grandparents in Scranton. She brought up her family’s cottage overlooking Lake Winola, not far from here. And in a campaign where she has spoken forcefully about gun control, she recalled learning to shoot a gun during her time at that cottage. Mrs. Clinton has deep ties to Scranton, where her grandfather worked in a lace mill. Her father was born and raised there, and Mrs. Clinton spent time each summer at the Lake Winola cottage. Those roots were on full display on Friday night at a rally in a high school gym here in Dunmore, which borders Scranton. “Secretary Clinton has northeastern Pennsylvania blood running through her veins,” the mayor of Scranton, William L. Courtright, told the crowd, proudly describing her as “a local woman that made it big.” Mrs. Clinton received an enthusiastic welcome when she and Senator Bob Casey came on stage to Prince’s “Let’s Go Crazy.” Her brothers, Hugh and Tony Rodham, were on hand for the rally, and she wasted no time in recalling her earlier life. Before the event, Mrs. Clinton told the crowd, she stopped at an Italian restaurant in Scranton. “I met people who said things to me like, ‘I knew your cousins, I knew your uncles,’ ” she said. “I had one man say, ‘Didn’t we sled down Court Street one winter?’ I said: ‘Could have been, could have been. I was there.’ ” “It just brings back a flood of the best memories and the best people,” she said. Mrs. Clinton brought up personal experience when talking about her support for new gun control measures, an area where she has tried to gain an upper hand against Senator Bernie Sanders. “I want to be really clear about this, because I learned how to shoot a gun behind our cottage in Lake Winola,” Mrs. Clinton said. “And I know how important gun ownership and particularly hunting is here in northeastern Pennsylvania.” “I want you to know that we can’t ignore the Second Amendment, and we can’t ignore that 33,000 people a year die from gun violence,” she said. “I think we are smart enough to figure out how to do that.” Mrs. Clinton’s local ties are well known in the Scranton area. Talking about Mrs. Clinton, Bill Shaw, a retired schoolteacher who has made phone calls to help her, noted how close he lives to the family’s cottage. “If you listen to her talk,” he said, “she seems that she’s more relaxed when she’s in this area.” But Eileen Occhipinti, a registered nurse, was not moved by Mrs. Clinton’s old-time recollections, though she said she still planed to vote for her. “I’ll be honest: We’ve heard it, and we’ve heard it every time she’s run,” she said. She wanted something more tangible from Mrs. Clinton.  “Don’t just use us at election time,” she said. “Come here and throw some money this way.”