 Officials involved with what has become known as the education reform movement expressed concern over a statement this week by former President Bill Clinton about his wife’s view of mandatory testing. Shavar Jeffries, the president of the Democrats for Education Reform, said he was troubled by Mr. Clinton’s comment in Cheyenne, Wyo., on Monday, reported by Politico, in which he said Hillary Clinton “thinks they are just too much, that it’s national overreach, and the most it could ever do is to help people at the very bottom levels of achievement.”  He said that it was not that his wife believed that “there shouldn’t be tests” or that “there shouldn’t be measures.” But he added, “The idea of having to give a national test every year for five years in a row for people from the third to the eighth grade doesn’t make as much sense as investing the same amount of money in helping the teachers to be better teachers. That would make more difference.” The Politico story was tweeted by leaders with the American Federation of Teachers, a group that has endorsed Mrs. Clinton. Those involved in the education reform movement have grown increasingly alarmed with Mrs. Clinton’s relationship with the teachers’ unions. “We’re going to reach out to her senior campaign leadership,” Mr. Jeffries said in an interview.  Teachers unions have long been skeptical, if not outright opposed, to annual testing, especially as those tests have been used in many states to grade the teachers themselves, which they say unfairly punishes teachers for circumstances, like student poverty, outside their control. Education reform advocates contend that annual testing is necessary to gauge which students — and teachers — need the most help. An aide to Mr. Clinton said that he was not suggesting that his wife believes that testing should be altogether tossed, but merely that a balance needs to be struck. Mrs. Clinton, as a senator from New York, voted for the No Child Left Behind Act, a signature education measure under President George W. Bush that required states to administer math and reading tests to students in grades three through eight. In her primary against Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Mrs. Clinton has sought support from major unions, and she has a long friendship with the A.F.T. president, Randi Weingarten. But Democrats involved in the education overhaul movement have generally favored the approach of President  Obama, whose administration has generally supported testing, leaving Mrs. Clinton to walk a sometimes-difficult line. 