 Updated, 6:10 p.m. | Donald J. Trump continued to fan the flames of doubt over Senator Ted Cruz’s citizenship on Wednesday, suggesting that his Canadian roots might be a problem if he won the Republican presidential nomination. The decision to confront Mr. Cruz more directly comes as Mr. Trump, who has dominated most national and state polls for months, faces the prospect of losing to the Texas senator in next month’s Iowa caucuses. Popular among evangelical Christians and conservatives, Mr. Cruz has become a favorite to win the first contest of the nominating process. The clash represents a shift in the Republican race because Mr. Trump and Mr. Cruz have largely steered clear of each other thus far, professing mutual admiration and agreement on many issues. The billionaire businessman warned, however, that he would eventually have to go after Mr. Cruz if he continued to rise in the polls. This week he has started to make good on that threat. “It’s a problem for him, and it’s a problem obviously for the Republicans,” Mr. Trump said on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” program. “Let’s assume he got a nomination and the Democrats bring suit, the suit takes two to three years to solve, so how do you run?” Mr. Trump, in interviews this week, suggested that Mr. Cruz’s birthplace could invite legal challenges. “It’s a problem for him, and it’s a problem obviously for the Republicans,” Mr. Trump said on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe.” Critics of Mr. Cruz have questioned his eligibility to be president for some time. Senator John McCain, who was born in the Panama Canal Zone, faced similar questions when he ran for president in 2008. Mr. Cruz was born in 1970 in Calgary, Alberta, to an American-born mother and a Cuban-born father. His parents were in Canada working in the oil business.  Mr. Cruz was an American citizen at birth because of his mother’s citizenship. The Constitution, in Article II, requires the president to be a “natural born citizen.” But the Constitution does not define that term, which is why Mr. Cruz, and other presidential candidates before him, have faced questions about their eligibility. The general view among legal scholars is that “anyone who acquires citizenship at birth is natural born for purposes of Article II,” as Sarah Helene Duggin, a law professor at Catholic University, wrote in 2013. Paul D. Clement, who served as solicitor general in the administration of President George W. Bush, and Neal K. Katyal, who served as acting solicitor general in the Obama administration, took up the subject in the Harvard Law Review last year. To understand the term “natural born citizen” as written by the framers of the Constitution, they pointed to British common law and legislative action by the First Congress.  “Both confirm that the original meaning of the phrase ‘natural born Citizen’ includes persons born abroad who are citizens from birth based on the citizenship of a parent,” they wrote.  In Mr. Cruz’s case, they concluded that “despite the happenstance of a birth across the border, there is no question that Senator Cruz has been a citizen from birth and is thus a ‘natural born Citizen’ within the meaning of the Constitution.” — Thomas Kaplan Mr. Trump also addressed the issue in interviews released on Tuesday, and his remarks follow similar lines of subtle attack that he has used against Mr. Cruz recently. Last month he sought to discredit the senator’s Christian credentials, saying “not a lot of evangelicals come out of Cuba.” Mr. Cruz’s father is Cuban. Mr. Cruz is also widely seen as eligible for the presidency because he was born in Canada and his mother was a United States citizen. Under the Constitution this qualifies him as a “natural born citizen,” but some continue to debate the definition of the phrase “natural born.” PolitiFact noted last year that while most experts have agreed that Mr. Cruz meets the constitutional criteria, the issue is not completely settled because the Supreme Court has never weighed in on such a citizenship challenge. Paul D. Clement, who served as solicitor general in the administration of President George W. Bush, and Neal K. Katyal, who served as acting solicitor general in the Obama administration, took up the subject in the Harvard Law Review last year. To understand the term “natural born citizen” as written by the framers of the Constitution, they pointed to British common law and legislative action by the First Congress. “Both confirm that the original meaning of the phrase ‘natural born Citizen’ includes persons born abroad who are citizens from birth based on the citizenship of a parent,” they wrote. In Mr. Cruz’s case, they concluded that “despite the happenstance of a birth across the border, there is no question that Senator Cruz has been a citizen from birth and is thus a ‘natural born Citizen’ within the meaning of the Constitution.” This is not the first time that Mr. Trump has stirred controversy over a politician’s citizenship. He previously spearheaded the so-called birther movement to pressure President Obama to prove that he was actually born in the United States. Although Mr. Trump was proved wrong on the issue, he succeeded in getting Mr. Obama to release his birth certificate, and many Americans continue to express doubts about his nation of origin and religion. Similar “birther” questions have dogged presidential candidates before. In 2008, doubts were raised about Senator John McCain’s eligibility to run for president because he was born in the Panama Canal Zone in 1936. The issue surfaced when George Romney, who was born in Mexico, ran in 1968. There was also some debate about the status of Barry Goldwater’s candidacy since he was born in the Arizona territory in 1909, before it was a state. The Obama administration appeared to be amused by the dust-up on Wednesday. Asked about the prospect of Republicans nominating someone who was born in Canada, Josh Earnest, a spokesman for Mr. Obama, said: “It would be quite ironic if after seven or eight years of drama around the president’s birth certificate, if Republican primary voters were to choose Senator Cruz as their nominee, somebody who actually wasn’t born in the United States and only 18 months ago renounced his Canadian citizenship.” Whether Mr. Trump’s strategy will work this time remains unclear, as Mr. Cruz, who has laughed off such suggestions, is immensely popular with the Republican Party’s conservative base. At an event in Iowa on Wednesday, Mr. Cruz said his eligibility to run was settled law. “People will continue to make political noise about it, but as a legal matter, it’s quite straightforward,” he said. Mr. Trump remains skeptical. Discussing the subject on Fox News on Wednesday, he said that Mr. Cruz might want to consider taking the issue to court in a pre-emptive fashion to alleviate any questions about his citizenship. As for his motives this time, Mr. Trump said that he was hopeful that Mr. Cruz’s citizenship would not be a problem. “I want to beat him on his own merits,” Mr. Trump said. “I like Ted a lot. I’d love to see him get it straightened out.” The issue was already percolating down to the campaign trail in Iowa. The Barbara Shultz, 68, of Winterset, Iowa, who retired from a state job in disaster relief, is making up her mind between whether to support Mr. Trump, Mr. Cruz or Ben Carson. She had heard that questions were raised about Cruz’s birth this week.  “If it does become a problem, I hope he will admit it,” she said. “I had not really thought about it until the past week.  I just assumed he was a citizen.”  She added that she hoped he hasn’t been hiding something.” And at Mr. Cruz’s events in Iowa on Wednesday, voters dismissed his birthplace as a non-issue, and few expected Mr. Trump’s concerns to resonate. “Minor issue. Peripheral,” Mike Miller, 59, said at a Godfather’s Pizza in Spirit Lake, where Mr. Cruz held one of five events. “I don’t think the Democrats will pursue it at all.” Asked if the comments might backfire and hurt Mr. Trump, Mr. Miller asked rhetorically, “Do you think anything can hurt Donald Trump?” Thomas Kaplan, Matt Flegenheimer and Trip Gabriel contributed reporting.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.