 GREENVILLE, S.C. — Former President Bill Clinton stumped for his wife, Hillary, on Tuesday at community center packed with a diverse crowd of some 1,000 undecided voters, supporters and even a few conservatives. Citing a litany of Ms. Clinton’s achievements, and without naming her chief rival, Senator Bernie Sanders, Mr. Clinton suggested that a Hillary Clinton administration would continue the Obama administration’s work to expand Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act, overhaul the student loan system and ensure background checks for all gun buyers.  Praising Mrs. Clinton as “a change agent,” Mr. Clinton started the list with her first post-college job with the Children’s Defense Fund in South Carolina, following with what he characterized as her dogged pursuit of early childhood and adult educational programs while he was governor of  Arkansas. He singled out Home Instruction for Parents of Preschool Youngsters, a program Ms. Clinton first learned of in Israel and imported to Arkansas. Her efforts, he said, benefited Arkansas’s poor from African-Americans in the Mississippi River Delta to the mostly white Ozark Mountains.  He also praised Clinton Foundation programs that provided two million clean-air cook stoves to families in poor countries and a generic drug program in Africa that he said increased the number of people receiving antimalarial drugs to 5.4 million from 1.7 million in the last several years. “You don’t know those three and a half million people whose lives were saved,” Mr. Clinton said. “But where they live, they know.” Some in the audience, like Daniel Cash, 51, a contractor, and Rena Jefferson, 40, who owns a home-cleaning business, remain undecided between Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders. “I like some of the stuff Sanders is saying and some of what Clinton is saying,” Mr. Cash said. “I just have to think and listen.” “That Clinton is going to continue the Affordable Care Act is my No. 1 thing,” he added. “Bernie wants to make health care free for all citizens. But it’s going to cost money. And where’s that going to come from? Taxes. So I don’t know if I want to do that. I want to know if it’s possible that the wealthy really pay for the bulk of his plan. Because they can afford it.” Lacy Barrington, 44, a stay-at-home mom from Greenville and a former lawyer, pulled her three children, ages 7 to 11, out of school to see Mr. Clinton. “Hillary has a concrete record of change over decades,” she said. “She will serve the country extremely well, she’s well-respected around the world, unlike very many of the Republican candidates.” Ron and Jenny Babington, 36, who have four children and described themselves as “conservatively minded independents,” walked a few blocks from their home to see the former president. Mr. Babington, a financial analyst, said his political leanings lined up more with Ron Paul than Mrs. Clinton or Bernie Sanders, but he and his wife said they were undecided in this race so far.  After Mr. Clinton’s speech, Mr. Babington said he came away impressed. “If I was a liberal progressive, I would be sympathetic to her sort of pragmatic, can-get-things-done pitch,” he said. “Honestly, I think Bernie’s platform is too heavily dependent on this nebulous political revolution that is highly unlikely to materialize. The risks notwithstanding in terms of likeability, the F.B.I. investigation and all that just on the merits, I’d be inclined to support Hillary because she has the experience, and that pitch is compelling.” Still, the only person who would persuade the couple to vote for Ms. Clinton, they said, is Donald J. Trump. “He scares me,” Ms. Babington said. “He has no guiding philosophies,” Mr. Babington added. “He’s only in it for himself.”