 KENOSHA, Wis. — This is a love story about Ted Cruz. And cheese. Mr. Cruz, a Texas senator, has long professed his affections for the Wisconsin staple, which he had called his favorite food well before the laws of local pandering required it. On Monday, he achieved something approaching political nirvana: an afternoon stroll, on the eve of a primary he is expected to win, through a place called the Mars Cheese Castle. Initially, there was disappointment: “When they promise a cheese castle,” he said upon arrival, “you sort of expect to be able to eat the castle.” It faded quickly. And then Mr. Cruz — joined by his wife, his two Cheesehead-wearing daughters and Gov. Scott Walker — bounded through an emporium of cheese. (Not to be confused with the now-shuttered Amy’s Cheese Emporium to the northwest.) There was cheesy popcorn, and wheels of Swiss, and cheese logs, and cheese curds, and cheesebread, and jalapeño cheesebread, and — what was that, Mr. Cruz?  “I would love to try, if it’s not too spicy, maybe the jalapeño cheesebread.” An employee fetched some. The tour continued, with a phalanx of reporters in tow, stuffing the aisles in a shop that is, in fact, fashioned like a castle on the outside, towers and all. Mr. Cruz offered a sampling to those nearby (“Cheesebread, anyone? Bread? You want to dive on the grenade?”); eagerly questioned the proprietors (“What’s the volume of cheese y’all sell in here?”); and named his favorite type of cheese (“all of them”). “I usually go to the store and pick out five or six, and I like to mix it up and try all sorts of different kinds,” he said, adding, after a bit more reflection, “To be honest, I like cheese on cheese.” Still, he declined to join his daughters, ages 7 and 5, in embracing dairy-based headwear. “There is an ironclad rule of politics, which is: No funny hats,” he said, invoking the star-crossed union of Michael Dukakis and an ill-fitting helmet. “And any hat is, by definition, defined as a funny hat.” Goaded further by reporters, Mr. Cruz said that Wisconsinites “wear their Cheeseheads so powerfully” that to emulate them would “intrude in the elegance with which the people of Wisconsin wear those hats.” He was reminded that “courageous conservative” was a favored slogan of his. “Not that courageous,” Mr. Cruz said. Moments later, he had located another cheese plate, cajoling anyone in earshot to have a taste. As he left, Mr. Cruz insisted to this reporter that failing to sample a particular aged Cheddar amounted to “shoddy reporting.”  It was very good.
PhotoSenator Ted Cruz held a plate of cheese for his daughter during a campaign stop on Monday at the Mars Cheese Castle in Kenosha, Wis.Credit Eric Thayer for The New York Times