 LAS VEGAS — Imagine you are just home from work on a warm February evening, from your casino or  construction job. You open a cold beer and plop down on the sofa. You hear a knock on the door. It is Chelsea Clinton. “You have a beautiful cat!” she said to a man in a tank top who reluctantly opened his door Friday evening, leaving the screen closed. “Are you caucusing on Saturday?” “Yes,” he said, not yet knowing who he was talking to. “I’m planning to caucus for Hillary.” “Thanks for supporting my mom!” she beamed. The man squinted. The desert sun was setting, making it tough to see who was there. “Are you Chelsea?” he said, appearing confused. “I am,” she says. The man lit up. “I supported your dad, too!” And so it went as Chelsea Clinton made her way down a street of squat working-class homes with “Beware of Dog” signs outside and pickup trucks parked on front lawns, knocking on doors and asking Nevadans to caucus for her mother on Saturday. In Iowa and New Hampshire, people are used to this kind of irritation (or excitement, depending on your political leanings). But this is Las Vegas, where the caucuses, first added to the early voting schedule in 2008, remain an afterthought for many of the city’s residents, particularly those who work long hours and have little time for politics. The daughter of a candidate showing up at the front door is still, well, weird. At the next house, John Prada, a 23-year-old driver, opened the door with his four-month-old son John Jr. and his five-year-old son Michael. “I can’t believe you’re at my front door!” John Sr. said.  “I love your mom!”  Ms. Clinton crouched down to see Michael’s magic trick.  “Your mom is a really good lady,” said Mr. Prada’s niece, Rachel Miller, 35, who had now joined the family on the front porch. At another house, a woman sat in a pickup truck parked in her driveway. “I don’t vote,” she told Ms. Clinton.  “One vote really does make a difference,” Ms. Clinton told the woman, peeking into the truck’s open window. “I don’t read books or vote,” she said. “But I want my daughters to vote.” “I appreciate you instilling that in your daughters,” Ms. Clinton said. “Do they live in Nevada?” A valiant effort, but her daughters, alas, had moved away, the woman explained. After the afternoon of canvassing — America Ferrera of “Ugly Betty” fame was also part of the door-knocking brigade — a reporter asked Ms. Clinton, who is pregnant and has been campaigning nonstop for her mother, what she wished voters knew about Hillary Clinton that they might not already know. “I am always so surprised when people characterize my Mom as cold or unfeeling,” Chelsea said. “Because my whole life my mother has been warm and generous-hearted and so supportive of me.” She talked about her mother’s advocacy for children and her newer role as a concerned and involved grandmother to Charlotte, Ms. Clinton’s first child, a theme she talks about all the time on the stump. “I hope that more people will really come to understand that on a visceral level,” she said before she headed off to the next event. “Because certainly for my mom it is visceral. It’s intellectual, too. But it’s really visceral and ethical.”