 President Trump declared his intention not to recertify the Iran nuclear deal in a forceful speech on Friday. But the rationale he provided includes several misleading or incomplete statements about the terms of the deal, what he considers a violation of the agreement and Iran itself. Here is an assessment. Mr. Trump gave an incomplete account of Iranian history.  “Iran is under the control of a fanatical regime that seized power in 1979 and forced a proud people to submit to its extremist rule,” Mr. Trump said, referring to the Islamic Revolution. Clerics led by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini overthrew the monarch that year and established an Islamic republic. His successor, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, is currently the supreme leader of Iran. Mr. Trump then listed the 1979 Iran hostage crisis, Iran’s sponsorship of terrorism and its support of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria among other examples of the country’s “hostile actions.” All of these actions are undoubtedly hostile, but they require more context, said Abbas Amanat, an Iran scholar at Yale University, who added that the 1979 revolution was a popular movement and that the government, though repressive, has been moderating. Mr. Trump’s history lesson omitted a critical recent turning point: the 2009 Green Movement, when protesters took to Iran’s streets to dispute the election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and call for more political freedom. Some even demanded for the removal of Ayatollah Khamenei. In 2013, Iranian voters delivered the presidency to Hassan Rouhani, a more moderate cleric, by a wide margin. His allies made strong gains in parliamentary elections in 2016, and Mr. Rouhani was re-elected this May. “Any attempt to renege or decertify or impose sanctions again has a tremendously negative impact on the current moderates in Iran” who support Mr. Rouhani and, in turn, would fuel hard-liners, Mr. Amanat said. Mr. Trump misled about the deal’s “immediate financial boost” to Iran.  Mr. Trump claimed that the deal gave Iran “over $100 billion its government could use to fund terrorism” and a “massive cash settlement of $1.7 billion.” The diplomatic agreement did not cut Iran a check, but it did release about $100 billion in previously Iranian frozen assets. Much of the amount is tied up in debt obligations. For example, $20 billion is owed to China for financing projects in Iran. Estimates for the actual amount available to Iran range from $35 billion to $65 billion. The Obama administration did transfer $1.7 billion to Iran, but Mr. Trump’s statement requires more context. The money — delivered in cash, some on a plane — was payment for a decades-long dispute and was indirectly linked to the nuclear deal. Before the 1979 revolution, Iran’s shah had paid $400 million for American military goods but, after he was overthrown, they were never delivered. The clerics who seized control demanded the money back, but the United States refused. The additional $1.3 billion is interest accumulated over 35 years. An initial reimbursement was released after the Iran deal was implemented and to help secure the release of American hostages. Mr. Trump claimed, without providing evidence, that “the regime intimidated international inspectors into not using the full inspection authorities that the agreement calls for.” The White House did not respond when asked to identify an instance of intimidation. But the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the watchdog group tasked with inspection, has yet to report issues with access. “To my knowledge, there is no evidence of this. The I.A.E.A. has never said that this is the case,” said Richard Nephew, a former sanctions coordinator at the State Department and a senior research scholar at the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University. Yukiya Amano, the International Atomic Energy Agency’s director general, repeatedly stated in a September news briefing that Iran was following the rules. He did not mention any instances of intimidation. “We have had access to locations more frequently than many other countries with extensive nuclear programs,” he said of Iran. After Mr. Trump’s speech on Friday, Mr. Amano issued his own statement. “So far, the I.A.E.A. has had access to all locations it needed to visit,” he said. “At present, Iran is subject to the world’s most robust nuclear verification regime.” Mr. Trump exaggerated when he suggested the deal’s “sunset clauses” are imminent. Mr. Trump claimed that provisions in the deal limiting Iran’s nuclear abilities expire “in just a few years.” In reality, the major provisions last a decade or longer. The American Israel Public Affairs Committee, a vocal critic of the deal, said it “largely expires after only 15 years.” Iran cannot use more than 5,060 centrifuges to enrich uranium — and it cannot pursue research and development on centrifuges — for 10 years. Limits on enrichment levels, facilities and stockpiles last for 15 years, according to a September report from the Congressional Research Service. Under the terms of the accord, Iran also agreed to convert a deep underground enrichment facility into a “technology center” that cannot contain nuclear material and where the number of centrifuges is limited for 15 years. Several provisions on plutonium, including forbidding the construction of new heavy water reactors, last for 15 years. Inspectors are to monitor centrifuges and related infrastructure for 15 years, verify inventory for 20 years and monitor uranium mines for 25 years.