 It might be a while before we know conclusively who won the presidential primaries in Missouri. On Tuesday night, Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton both appeared to score the narrowest of victories in the Show-Me State, but under the state’s elections laws, the vote totals will not be official for roughly a month. Still to be counted are an unknown number of overseas absentee and military ballots as well as provisional ballots, which are offered to voters who are not listed on precinct registers or when their registration records cannot be found.  Even then, the margins are likely to be tight enough that the runners-up in both contests, Ted Cruz and Bernie Sanders, could seek recounts, a process that could take three more weeks. State law allows a candidate to request a recount if the margin of victory is less than one-half of 1 percent, which was true in both races. As it stands, Mr. Trump leads Mr. Cruz by 1,726 votes and Mrs. Clinton is ahead of Mr. Sanders by 1,531, according to the Missouri secretary of state’s office.  A triumph in Missouri would be a psychological victory for the campaigns that come out on top, but it also has significance in the delegate count, particularly in the Republican race, where 52 delegates are at stake. Twelve of those go to the statewide winner. Five go to the winner of each of the state’s eight Congressional Districts. As the votes stood Wednesday, Mr. Trump would win five of the eight Missouri districts, with Mr. Cruz winning the other three, giving Mr. Trump 37 delegates to Mr. Cruz’s 15. But several of those district victories were by very narrow margins — including one Trump win by roughly 100 votes — so those results could change. Any change on the Democratic side would most likely be minor, since the party awards delegates proportionate to the statewide vote.  Missouri has a recent history with a statewide recount. In 2014, the vote approving a constitutional amendment allowing for the “right to farm,” a measure promoted as a bulwark against the overregulation of agricultural practices, and opposed by environmental groups and the Humane Society, was so close that a recount was requested, which affirmed the vote. Mr. Cruz also has a recount history. In 2000, he worked on the legal team for George W. Bush during his Florida recount fight with Al Gore.