 Long before he headlined Republican dinners and wooed donors on behalf of his son, Ted, Rafael Cruz – now an evangelical pastor and a major draw for Tea Party audiences – campaigned across Texas for none other than Fidel Castro. The elder Mr. Cruz, a sympathizer with Mr. Castro’s revolution who suffered beatings under the government of the Cuban dictator Fulgencio Batista, left the island in 1957 and enrolled at the University of Texas at Austin. One of the first Cubans at the university, he spoke at local Rotary Clubs in support of the Castro-led rebellion and marched in the street to celebrate its victory in 1959. “Praising the wonders of Castro,” as Rafael Cruz put it ruefully in an interview. At that time, Mr. Castro had not yet revealed his Communist ideology, and Mr. Cruz was an avowed anticommunist, a trait that helped him fit in with fellow students in his dormitory – the Campus Guild, a building pervaded by Cold War anxiety. The year’s big dance was called the May Day Red Ball, in which couples danced under hammers and sickles. Residents elected a house “commissar,” who sat on a commode as a throne. Some of the foreign students built a short-wave radio and kept it in a back room dubbed the “spy center.” A model of Sputnik hung in the dining hall. And a basement room, its floors slick from leaking walls, was called the Kremlin: As tradition had it, the secretary of the Communist Party of Texas had once lived there. The two-story house, for that matter, was essentially a commune, former residents recalled. They paid about $45 a month for room and board, and pitched in with chores. Some cleaned pots and pans by hand, while others loaded plates into a commercial dishwasher. Some cleaned bunks in the dim bedrooms; others the latrines and locker rooms. Mr. Cruz generally socialized with a small number of Cuban students who ate rice and beans and taught the cha-cha to girls in the neighboring high schools, many former borders recalled. They also talked about the revolution. “He really got fired up when he talked politics,” said Rafael Benito Marquez, one of several Cuban friends Mr. Cruz made in Austin. “He always wanted to be a leader.” Sandalio Perez Rementaria, another friend, recalled driving to Miami with Mr. Cruz in the late 1950s to raise money for Mr. Castro’s revolution. But Mr. Cruz denied this: “I was not involved in sending money, just speaking.” Mr. Cruz said he returned to Cuba in the summer of 1959 and, disillusioned by what he found, rejected Mr. Castro. Mr. Cruz said in the interview that upon returning to the United States, he went back to the clubs where he had spoken on Mr. Castro’s behalf and recanted. “‘My eyes have been opened,’” he recalled telling his audiences, much to his chagrin. “Please forgive me.”