 Aides to Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky indicated that they would fight any decision by CNN to move him to the so-called undercard stage for the Republican debate on Tuesday in Las Vegas, but dismissed a report that he was considering dropping out of the race if he were not on the main stage. A poll of likely Republican caucusgoers in Iowa that was released on Saturday showed Mr. Paul at 3 percent. Shortly after the poll was released, his campaign issued a statement that said that Mr. Paul had had discussions with CNN and the Republican National Committee arguing that he belongs on the main debate stage. According to the criteria used by CNN, a candidate must be polling at 3.5 percent nationally or 4 percent in either Iowa or New Hampshire between Oct. 29 and Dec. 15. Candidates who do not meet that but who are polling above 1 percent in any of those three types of surveys can appear at the undercard debate. Appearing in the undercard debate has not always been damaging. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey commanded the stage at the debate on Nov. 10 in Milwaukee, and saw an improvement in some polls. But Mr. Paul is not the same type of political performer as Mr. Christie, and losing the exposure that a prime-time debate can offer could be problematic. His campaign aides noted that the rules were changed to allow Carly Fiorina to appear on the main stage in an August debate. They also noted the size of Mr. Paul’s operation, and that he is in the top five in several polls. His aides said in the statement that Mr. Paul was looking forward to his “fair and rightful place on the main debate stage.” Mr. Paul’s advisers also disputed a report from The Boston Globe that Mr. Paul had indicated that he would have an announcement on Tuesday about whether to continue his campaign if he does not make the cut for the main debate. “We will make an announcement, on that, on Tuesday,” Mr. Paul said at a campaign stop, The Globe reported. The article said that his comment was in response to a question that specifically asked whether he would drop out of the race for president if he did not qualify for the main-stage Republican debate. In an email, Mr. Paul’s top adviser, Doug Stafford, wrote: “We continue to believe Senator Paul should be on the main stage at the next debate, but regardless, Senator Paul is in the race to stay and to win. He was referring to an announcement Tuesday as it relates to the debate.”