 MANCHESTER, N.H. – First, Gov. John Kasich’s rivals ignored him. Then a few gently criticized him. Now they are hammering him in New Hampshire, the state where the Ohio governor has anchored his campaign: A pair of “super PACs” supporting Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey and former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida have begun to deliver attacks on Mr. Kasich on television and in the mail. Right to Rise, a pro-Bush PAC, is battering Mr. Kasich with harsh television ads and mail that label him “the worst on spending of any governor in the country.” On television, commercials attack Mr. Kasich for supporting “massive defense cuts,” and highlight his support in the 1990s for a military base-closing commission that shuttered a base in New Hampshire. Mr. Kasich, one ad says, is “wrong on New Hampshire issues.”  A strategist for America Leads, a pro-Christie super PAC, confirmed that the group was also sending mail to New Hampshire voters that criticized Mr. Kasich’s record. And separately, the American Future Fund, a conservative group that began running anti-Kasich ads on television this week, has started going after him on the radio as well, a strategist for the group said. The group, a nonprofit that does not disclose its donors, is not tied to a specific candidate in the race. Right to Rise has jabbed at Mr. Kasich on television in the past, in commercials that compared him and Mr. Christie unfavorably with Mr. Bush. But the new offensive hits a more strident note against a candidate who is perceived as being on the rise in the polls here. Chris Schrimpf, a spokesman for the Kasich campaign, said in an email that it was “sad that the final legacy of Jeb Bush is to falsely tear down his fellow Republicans.” He defended Mr. Kasich’s record. “As governor, he turned an $8 billion budget hole in Ohio into a $2 billion surplus, while cutting taxes by $5 billion including killing the death tax,” Mr. Schrimpf said. “False attacks are what happens when you rise in the polls, but Governor Kasich is continuing his positive vision of solving problems.” If Mr. Kasich’s campaign has responded with restraint to the attacks against him, a super PAC supporting his candidacy has not. The group, New Day for America, filed a complaint with the New Hampshire television station WMUR, demanding that the American Future Fund ads be pulled. Nick Ryan, the fund’s president, said that it would only intensify its criticism of Mr. Kasich, and that it intended to file public-record requests in Ohio for information regarding Mr. Kasich’s decision to expand Medicaid in the state under the Affordable Care Act.