 Updated, 4:13 p.m. | Donald J. Trump released a savage attack ad against Senator Marco Rubio of Florida that’s set to air in his home state, a 60-second takedown that calls the senator “corrupt” and accuses him of intentionally misusing a Republican Party credit card to line his pockets.  The ad is one of the most brutal of a campaign season defined by negative ads, and it goes on the air seven days before the state’s Republican primary. Portions of it sound as if they were written by Mr. Trump himself.  “Corrupt Marco Rubio has spent years defrauding the people of Florida,” the narrator says in the spot. “As a legislator he flipped on a key vote after making a quick $200,000 from selling his house to the mother of the bill’s lobbyist.”  The narrator goes on: “He used the Republican Party’s credit card to pave his driveway and to live it up in Las Vegas, and when he got caught, he said he had used the wrong credit card. But he had used the same Republican Party card for six flights between Miami and Tallahassee, then billed the state for the same airline tickets and pocketed the cash until, once again, he got caught.”  One part of the ad sounds particularly derivative of Mr. Trump’s past attacks on Mr. Rubio: “On top of it all, Rubio’s been a total no-show in the U.S. Senate with the worst voting record of all,” the narrator says, concluding that Mr. Rubio is “another corrupt, all-talk, no-action politician.”  Mr. Trump is the subject of more than $10 million in negative ads from outside groups, with much of that money being spent in Florida. If Mr. Rubio loses the primary there next week, his campaign is most likely over. Joe Pounder, a spokesman for Mr. Rubio, pointed out the similarities between the new Trump spot and the type of claims that Charlie Crist, then the governor of Florida, made against Mr. Rubio in their 2010 Senate race.  “First, Donald Trump gave big bucks to Charlie Crist in 2010, and now he’s recycling the same false and negative attacks about Marco. Charlie Crist’s and Donald Trump’s con didn’t fool Floridians in 2010, and it won’t fool them now,” Mr. Pounder said in a statement. “These attacks didn’t even stop Trump himself from saying Mitt Romney should pick Marco as his vice president just two years later.” 