 LAS VEGAS — Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Hillary Clinton took their increasingly contentious battle for the Democratic nomination to a predominantly black church in Las Vegas on Sunday morning. Although Mr. Sanders reached out to Victory Missionary Baptist Church first, Mrs. Clinton brought along Representative John Lewis of Georgia, a civil-rights leader who told the church that Mrs. Clinton was “ready to be president Day 1.” Mrs. Clinton followed up by saying she planned to build on the Affordable Care Act, “which has been especially important for African-Americans.” Mr. Sanders emphasized his desire to reform and demilitarize police departments, ensuring that officers who broke the law were held accountable and that the departments looked like the communities they served. As both candidates courted black voters in Nevada, the Rev. Robert E. Fowler Sr. welcomed them by telling members of the church, “I’m excited that they are here, and I am encouraged that they are willing to sit at the same church, at the same service, at the same time.” Mrs. Clinton sat on one side of the church, accompanied by Mr. Lewis, while Mr. Sanders, who brought his wife, Jane, sat on the other. Mr. Fowler told both candidates that he wanted to them to explain why people should vote for them. “Senator Sanders, your camp contacted us first, so you have the opportunity to go first,” Mr. Fowler said. Mr. Sanders spoke for about 10 minutes, saying that there were competing philosophies in the world and that he wanted to create a government focused on helping all Americans. “Some of us believe that what God teaches us and what this world is about is that we do not turn our backs on our brothers and our sisters, that essentially we are in this together,” Mr. Sanders said. “I have four beautiful kids and seven grandchildren. I want you to worry about my kids, and I have got to worry about your children and your grandchildren. That’s what this church is about, and that’s what our existence is about. But there are people out there today who say what the world is about is me. ‘I got to make as much money as I can. I’ve got to become a billionaire.’” Mr. Sanders added that America had a higher rate of childhood poverty than almost any other major country and a high unemployment rate among African-American youth, yet gave “huge” tax breaks to the rich. In particular, Mr. Sanders said, Nevada bore the brunt of Wall Street’s greed as one of the hardest-hit states during the 2008 recession. “This state was decimated,” he said. He then talked about the need to reform police departments and to give former inmates education, job training and other resources to ensure that they can become employed. Mr. Lewis introduced Mrs. Clinton and said, “She’s been a senator, secretary of state. Look, she is prepared, she is ready.” Mrs. Clinton, who like Mr. Sanders repeated several lines from her stump speech, spoke of the common ground she shared with him. “My esteemed opponent and I agree,” she said. “We can never let big banks wreck our economy. No bank is too big to fail, no executive too powerful to jail.” But, Mrs. Clinton added, “I am not a single-issue candidate, and this is not a single-issue country.” “Because if we were to achieve everything about banks and money in politics, would that end racism? Would that make it automatically going to happen that people would be able to get the jobs they deserve, the housing they need, the education their children need to have?” Later in the day, Mr. Sanders spoke to 1,700 supporters at Bonanza High School and repeated that he would focus on income inequality, immigration reform and regulating Wall Street if he were elected. “If we win here in Nevada, we send a profound message to the entire country,” Mr. Sanders said. “That message is that people in this country will no longer accept establishment politics and establishment economics.”