 WASHINGTON — The White House on Wednesday said that President Obama would travel to Flint, Mich., next week to hear from residents affected by the water crisis there and get a briefing on federal response efforts.  His visit will come about six months after state officials first admitted that the tap water in Flint had been tainted with lead and other chemicals, revealing a public health emergency that led to a criminal investigation and has reverberated in the presidential campaign. Mr. Obama, who skipped stopping in Flint when he traveled to Detroit earlier this year to promote the automobile industry’s recovery during his presidency, revealed his plan  to stop in Flint in a letter to a young resident of the city who had asked to meet with him in Washington. Amariyanna Copeny, an 8-year-old girl known as Mari, who has spent months dressing in a tiara and sash emblazoned “Little Miss Flint” to protest the  city’s water crisis, wrote to Mr. Obama  to request  a meeting with the president or Mrs. Obama when Mari and other residents traveled to Washington for congressional hearings on the water  issue. “My mom said chances are you will be too busy with more important things, but there is a lot of people coming on these buses and even just a meeting from you or your wife would really lift people’s spirits,” Mari wrote in a letter released by the White House. Mr. Obama responded to Mari in a signed, typewritten note dated Monday that he would be traveling to Flint, and hoped to meet her there. “I am so proud of you for using your voice to speak out on behalf of the children of Flint,” Mr. Obama wrote. “Like you, I’ll use my voice to call for change and help lift up your community.” Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Obama’s trip, coming months after the crisis came to light, was intended “to demonstrate that while the public discussion of this situation doesn’t retain the same spot in the limelight, the administration is committed to following through on helping that community recover.” He said the trip would call attention to the fact that Republicans have refused the administration’s entreaties for funding and additional measures to help Flint respond to the crisis.  “We would certainly welcome a greater commitment, or frankly, any commitment from Republicans in Congress in responding to this situation,” Mr. Earnest said. “The reason that Congress has not acted on funding for Flint is because Republicans say they oppose it.”