 Even though the first votes of the presidential primary are still four months away, most news media outlets and polling firms are fixated on the so-called horse race – who is ahead by how much and where. The Pew Research Center, however, took a step back last week and turned the lens on the voters rather than the candidates. They found some important differences between Republicans and Democrats not just on issues, such as the nuclear agreement with Iran or funding for Planned Parenthood, but on what they are looking for in a potential president. One big difference: Republicans are looking for a candidate with new ideas and experience outside of Washington, while Democrats place a higher premium on service in government and a proven record in the political establishment. Among those who identified themselves as Republican or who lean Republican, Pew found, 65 percent said it was important for a candidate to have new ideas and a different approach to governing. That helps explain why Donald J. Trump, Ben Carson and Carly Fiorina – none of whom has ever won an election or served at any level of government – together command almost 50 percent of the hypothetical votes of Republicans. Democrats, on the other hand, by 50 to 42 percent, said they preferred a candidate with experience and a proven record over someone with new ideas. The two leading Democrats, Hillary Rodham Clinton, the former first lady, senator and secretary of state, and Bernie Sanders, the longtime representative and senator from Vermont, have decades of service in and around government.  Both numbers showed a noticeable shift from March, when a majority of Republicans said they wanted an experienced candidate and Democrats were almost evenly split on the question. On what issues voters say are important in deciding their votes, the Pew Center found there are some areas where Republicans and Democrats are aligned. Similarly large numbers of Republicans and Democrats identify the economy, immigration and abortion as important issues. But Republicans place much more value on dealing with the federal budget or combating terrorism, while Democrats identify the environment and health care as priorities. The widest gap is on the environment, Pew found. Twice as many Democrats and those who lean Democratic (74 percent) as Republicans and Republican leaners (37 percent) say a candidate’s position on the environment will be important to their vote. One final finding that might raise some political scientists’ eyebrows: Almost identical numbers of Republicans and Democrats say that electability is less important to them than a candidate’s position on the issues. Only about a quarter of all voters say that they will base their vote on whether a candidate has the best chance of defeating the other party. That number may change as the actual voting nears. The Pew survey was conducted by landline and cellphone from Sept. 22-27 and included 1,502 adults from all 50 states. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus three percentage points for the entire sample and five percentage points for the Republican and Democratic subgroups.  This is the first of an occasional series of posts taking a deeper look at polling during this campaign cycle.