 Two groups supporting Hillary Clinton’s presidency have teamed up for their first paid attack ad against Donald J. Trump on Thursday, seizing on comments he made that women who receive abortions should receive “some form of punishment” were the procedure to be banned in the United States. Priorities USA Action, the main “super PAC” bolstering Mrs. Clinton’s bid, worked with Planned Parenthood, whose political action arm has also endorsed Mrs. Clinton, on the ad, titled “Punishment.” The 30-second online spot, directed at female women voters in Florida, Ohio and Washington, D.C., uses Mr. Trump’s remark to MSNBC, which he later backed away from, as an impetus to attack his longer history of comments about women. “When it comes to women, the Republican front-runner is …” the ad begins, and then flashes a scene from Mr. Trump’s long-running reality TV series “The Apprentice” when he tells a female contestant she “must be a pretty picture, dropping on your knees.” In another scene, after the word “demeaning” flashes across the screen, Mr. Trump tells a female journalist, “You wouldn’t have your job if you weren’t beautiful.”  The word “insulting” then appears, followed by Mr. Trump’s exchange this week with MSNBC’s Chris Matthews. After prodding by Mr. Matthews at a televised town-hall-style event on Wednesday on the topic of abortion, Mr. Trump said “There has to be some form of punishment.” The word “Dangerous” flashes ominously on screen. “We have too much to lose to let him win,” the ad concludes. “Vote Hillary. Mr. Trump promptly recanted his remarks after an immediate backlash from both Republicans and Democrats. “The woman is a victim in this case, as is the life in her womb,” Mr. Trump said in a statement. But as Priorities’ first official ad purchase directed against Mr. Trump underscores, the comment has already added to the fodder for Democratic groups who plan to go after Mr. Trump and the Republicans in a November election. The ad is said to cost in five figures. “Trump’s latest attack on women is yet another reminder of just how important it’s going to be to support Hillary Clinton this fall and Priorities is pleased to work with Planned Parenthood to hold him accountable,” said Anne Caprara, Priorities USA executive director.  The ad echoes one used against Mr. Trump by an anti-Trump Republican super PAC, Our Principles PAC, ahead of the primaries in Ohio and Utah. That ad showed women repeating some of Mr. Trump’s descriptions about women, including “bimbo,” “dog,” and “fat pig.”  “This is how Donald Trump talks about our mothers, our sisters, our daughters,” the women in the ad say.