 LYNCHBURG, Va. – Donald J. Trump came to the stage where Senator Ted Cruz began his presidential campaign and vowed to “protect Christianity.” Then, he turned to quote Scripture.  “Two Corinthians, 3:17,” Mr. Trump said. The many students in attendance on Monday chuckled, as the standard reference to that chapter of Scripture is “Second Corinthians.” But Mr. Trump was undeterred. “That’s the whole ballgame. ‘Where the spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty,’” he said, quoting the Bible. “And here there is liberty.”  He was met with still chuckling applause. Mr. Trump’s visit to Liberty University comes as he is seeking the support of evangelicals both nationally and in Iowa to help his campaign stave off the surging Mr. Cruz. To that effort, he was given a long, glowing introduction from the Christian university’s popular and influential president, Jerry Falwell Jr.  “As our friendship has grown, so has my admiration for Mr. Trump,” Mr. Falwell said in his introduction, noting that the speech should not be interpreted as an endorsement. But then he continued to praise the candidate for nearly 10 minutes, calling him a “breath of fresh air,” pointing to his philanthropic efforts, his blunt speaking style and his success as a businessman, in particular his independence from major wealthy donors. As he had before, Mr. Falwell compared to Mr. Trump to his father, the Rev. Jerry Falwell, the founder of both the university and the modern evangelical movement, who died in 2007. Mr. Trump later called the comparison “an honor.” The candidate stuck mostly to his stump speech, occasionally making passing references to Christianity, noting that “the Bible is the best” and promising that under a President Trump, “you’re going to see ‘Merry Christmas’ in department stores.” Mr. Trump said he had a “record crowd,” adding, “We’re dedicating the record to the late, great Martin Luther King.”  Officials at the university were unable to confirm that the crowd size was the largest attendance in school history. At convocation, where Mr. Trump spoke, it is compulsory for students who live on campus to attend, with one or two exceptions. So the more than 10,000 people who came out for Mr. Trump is a fairly standard audience for the weekly events. Despite the long introduction from Jerry Falwell Jr., Mr. Trump’s reception by students was occasionally muted. He received applause and laughter from the crowd but rarely the booming cheers that have been a hallmark of his other campaign rallies so far. The students, ever respectful and expressing excitement for the opportunity to see Mr. Trump in person, seemed to have mixed feelings about the candidate. “We have a guy that lives next to me on my hall and he printed out 5,000 pamphlets and he’s been passing them out all over campus, and they’re campaign kind of things for why we shouldn’t vote for Trump but why we should respect him as a person and a successful businessman,” said Anthony Brausch, 19, a freshman, who is unsure if he could vote for Mr. Trump. Others didn’t like his combative style.  “I think he’s hard on certain minorities and religious groups when it’s not really necessary,” said Caleb Grow, 24, a graduate student at Liberty. But Mr. Trump had plenty of support as well. Five students with homemade “Trump” shirts were posing for pictures before the event, saying that they were on the “Trump Train.” And there were a few scattered red “Make America Great Again” hats among the students in attendance. “I think as a Christian, coming to a Christian university, he’ll be able to represent himself for believers to vote for him,” said Henry Lough, 19, a freshman who was proudly sporting a Trump 2016 shirt he bought in recent months.  The school is becoming an important stop for presidential candidates. Besides Mr. Cruz starting his campaign here, Ben Carson spoke in November and Senator Bernie Sanders appeared in September, framing his message on income inequality as one of morality. Mr. Trump last spoke at the school in 2012, and he stayed in touch with Mr. Falwell. To students who might be concerned  that Mr. Trump is not the most religious in the current crop of presidential candidates, Mr. Falwell also had a message from his father. “Dad explained when he walked into the voting booth, he wasn’t electing a Sunday school teacher or a pastor,” he said, adding, “He was electing the president of the United States.” 