 With poll numbers that barely register, Senator Lindsey Graham will not be participating in either of Tuesday night’s Republican presidential debates, leaving the stages without the witty wisecracks that have become one of his claims to fame.  But Mr. Graham will still be watching and weighing in. The Republican senator from South Carolina will be using Sidewire, a social media platform, to offer the responses that he would have given to questions and to share his thoughts on how the event is unfolding. “I promise you, I’ll be the funniest one of the whole debate,” Mr. Graham said in an interview. Jokes aside, Mr. Graham is mad that after strong performances at the previous “undercard” debates, he was uninvited altogether. With his poll numbers below 1 percent, Mr. Graham failed to qualify. “I think it’s absurd,” he said. “I don’t understand using polling in such an ill-conceived fashion.” Mr. Graham contends that the use of national polls to determine debate standing has favored better-known candidates like Donald J. Trump, making Mr. Graham appear to be an implausible candidate even in places such as his home state of South Carolina, where he sits at 1 percent. A veteran and national security hawk, Mr. Graham is banking his candidacy on the New Hampshire primary. On Monday he unveiled an advertising campaign there, featuring the endorsement of his good friend and colleague Senator John McCain.  “Lindsey is the only candidate with a comprehensive plan to defeat ISIS and the only one prepared to be a commander-in-chief that is worthy of the sacrifices of our men and women in uniform,” Mr. McCain says in a television ad airing in New Hampshire. Mr. Graham is also running radio ads in New Hampshire, as part of his push to gain traction there. A strong showing in the primary, he says, would give his campaign credibility going forward. He noted that Mr. McCain was still admired by many voters.  “His voice matters in New Hampshire, having won the state twice,” Mr. Graham said. “I was his wingman, and he’s being mine.”