 BOSTON — Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont vowed on Monday night that no matter the outcome of the Super Tuesday races, his campaign would continue to rally voters against a political establishment that is largely backing his rival, Hillary Clinton. Mr. Sanders, standing next to a chartered plane here, said he would “likely” win Vermont’s vote, and also felt good about his chances for winning the most delegates in Oklahoma, Minnesota, Colorado and Massachusetts. He also said he might take a large number of delegates in Texas. “We started this campaign at 3 percent in the polls — 60 or 70 points behind Hillary Clinton,” Mr. Sanders said to more than a dozen reporters. “We have rallied millions of people who want to see a government that represents all of us and not just the billionaire class.” Mr. Sanders  added that he was dedicated to taking the fight for the Democratic nomination to the convention this summer.  “At the end of tomorrow, I think 15 states will have spoken,” Mr. Sanders said. “Last I heard, we have a lot more than 15 states in the United States of America. And I think it is more than appropriate to give all of those states and the people in those states a chance to vote for the candidate of their choice.” Still, Mr. Sanders emphasized the importance of Tuesday’s votes and cast himself as going up against a Clinton machine powered by local officials in multiple states. Repeating a claim he made before elections in Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina, Mr. Sanders said he was confident he would do well if there is a large voter turnout and that he would struggle if not. “Tomorrow all over the country, our campaign is taking on the political establishment,” Mr. Sanders said. “We’re taking on governors and senators and mayors who know how to get out the vote. They do that very well.” Mr. Sanders went on to repeat criticisms of Mrs. Clinton’s ties to several industries and to cast himself as a candidate more interested in reforming campaign finance laws and dealing with income inequality. To make his point, Mr. Sanders referred to the director Adam McKay’s acceptance speech at the Academy Awards on Sunday after he won for the best adapted screenplay for “The Big Short,” a movie about the failure of the banking industry. “As Adam McKay pointed out at the Oscars last night, if we want to have a government that is not controlled by billionaires, then we should not be voting for candidates who received substantial sums of money from the wealthy, from Wall Street, from the pharmaceutical industry and the fossil fuel industry,” Mr. Sanders said.  Mr. Sanders also said that while he respected Mrs. Clinton, he didn’t think “real change” comes from someone taking money from such industries and that instead, such change would come from millions of people demanding “a government that represents all of us and not just the 1 percent.”
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.