 Good Monday morning. Congress, away for the holiday, missed all the action last week during the Democratic debate. But members will make up for it in their return as they face warnings from the Treasury secretary, a leadership race that mirrors the will-he-or-won’t-he of Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s presidential deliberations, and infighting in the House committee investigating the 2012 attacks in Benghazi, Libya, which this week will play host to a special, if not quite friendly, guest.  Members of Congress begin returning from a holiday break on Monday to try to find a new House speaker, head off a fiscal crisis threatening the economy, and grill Hillary Rodham Clinton in her long-awaited appearance before the special House committee on Benghazi. That lineup should keep them occupied. The scramble by House Republicans to replace Speaker John A. Boehner has essentially been suspended with the House out for Columbus Day and Representative Paul D. Ryan back home in Wisconsin pondering whether he will seek the post. With the House coming back to town, Mr. Ryan will come under renewed pressure to announce his plans and to either jump into the race or let other candidates waiting for his decision to pursue the job if he is not interested. Pressure is also building on the House and Senate to increase the federal debt limit so that the government can continue to pay its bills. The Treasury has warned that if Congress doesn’t act, it will be unable to meet all its obligations after Nov. 3. House Republicans intend to take up a bill that would require the government to keep paying interest on its debt and providing Social Security benefits, but Democrats and the White House consider that unworkable and are demanding a straightforward increase in the debt ceiling. Outside the speaker chaos, the marquee event of the week will come on Thursday, when Mrs. Clinton, the Democratic presidential candidate and former secretary of state, is set to appear before the Benghazi panel even as its own credibility and objectivity is coming under increasing attack. The appearance is important for Mrs. Clinton to see if she can settle questions about both her handling of the security at the compound in Benghazi as well as her use of an email system outside the control of the State Department. But Thursday’s showdown is just as important for the panel as it tries to recapture respectability. — Carl Hulse What We’re Watching This Week — President Obama will hold a round-table discussion on Monday with chief executives, the White House says, “to discuss efforts to tackle climate change both in the United States as well as on a global scale.” Also on Monday, the week after scientists suggested that alien megastructures are, possibly, responsible for “bizarre” data picked up by the Kepler telescope, Mr. Obama will welcome “students, teachers, scientists, astronauts and others” for Astronomy Night, “a night of stargazing.” — Carly Fiorina will be in several states this week, including Arkansas, Florida, New York and South Carolina; Senator Marco Rubio of Florida will be in Utah on Monday for a rally with Representative Mia Love. — The day after her Benghazi testimony, Mrs. Clinton will attend a grass-roots organizing rally in Virginia with Gov. Terry McAuliffe. And on Monday, Martin O’Malley will appear on “The Daily Show” with Trevor Noah. Our Other Favorites from The Times What We’re Reading Elsewhere — Democrats, The Associated Press writes, “welcome” a debate on new gun laws in the wake of several high-profile shootings, saying that support for the movement “is broader now and the politics of the issue have shifted enough to make the push for tougher measures a political winner, even if there remains almost no chance for success in Congress.” — The Guardian takes a look at Mr. Rubio’s position on immigration, arguing that with the issue “driving a wedge between Republican primary voters, Rubio has tried to straddle both sides of the immigration debate — maintaining that he is ‘personally open’ to green cards for undocumented immigrants but emphasizing an enforcement-first approach.” — And “what happens,” The Washington Post writes of Mr. Bush, “when a candidate whose greatest strength is the sense of inevitability surrounding him becomes something short of inevitable?”