 NEW LONDON, N.H. — South Carolina is Bush country. That’s the plan, anyway, with much of Jeb Bush’s family heading to the state for an informal (birthday!) reunion in advance of the primary there on Feb. 20.  Both Mr. Bush and his sister have said that they expect their older brother, former President George W. Bush, to hit the campaign trail in the state, where he remains popular with the Republican base. And Jeb Bush, who will turn 63 on Feb. 11 — just two days after the New Hampshire primary, as the race shifts south — will be joined in South Carolina by his wife, his three children, his two daughters-in-law and his four grandchildren for a day of birthday campaign fun.  “The Bush family — this is a family deal, particularly when you get to the beginning of the end,” Mr. Bush said, speaking to voters in Sioux City, Iowa, last week, and revealing what he said was supposed to be a secret: “All four of my grandkids are going to be with me on a bus tour, so if you want to see four beautiful grandkids, come to South Carolina, because that’s where I’ll be with them.” Mr. Bush’s mother, Barbara Bush, will be joining him on Thursday in New Hampshire, but has no plans to continue to South Carolina. The Bush campaign has struggled with how to handle the dynastic clan. Mr. Bush’s older brother, for instance, has high approval ratings with many of the voters Mr. Bush needs to win over — but could upstage Mr. Bush as the more naturally charismatic of the two, and remind voters that Jeb Bush would be the third Bush to win the presidency. At a dinner of roughly 300 Morgan Stanley executives on Wednesday evening in New York, President George W. Bush told the crowd that he was looking forward to campaigning for his brother in South Carolina according to two people briefed on his remarks. The Bush campaign, said others briefed on its thinking, is aiming to have the former president on the ground in South Carolina a few days after the New Hampshire primary on Feb. 9. Mr. Bush, however, has become increasingly comfortable embracing his family, both on the stump (one of his sons, Jeb Jr. — who is nicknamed “2.0” — frequently joins him on the road) and in his speeches. Speaking to voters here Wednesday, Mr. Bush began his remarks by saying he had something he wanted to get out of the way: “I’m a Bush and I’m proud of it.” “I love my mother and she thinks I’m her favorite son. I’m blessed to have a father that’s the greatest man alive,” he said. “And I love my brother. So I’m part of the establishment because I’m a Bush. Great. Doesn’t bother me a bit.”
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.