 As President Obama moves closer to using executive action to tighten regulations on gun purchases, the Republican presidential candidates hoping to succeed him are accusing him of abusing power and promising to reverse such measures if elected. Mr. Obama is meeting with Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch this week to discuss what moves he can take to curb gun violence. One possibility is focusing on who could be considered a high-volume dealer for an executive action that could expand background checks. But Republicans say he is overstepping his authority. “This president wants to act as if he’s a king, as if he’s a dictator,” Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey told Fox News Sunday. “This is going to be another illegal executive action which I’m sure will be rejected by the courts and when I become president, will be stricken from executive action by executive action I will take.” Jeb Bush said that Mr. Obama was recklessly using authority that he does not have and infringing on the rights of law-abiding citizens. “It’s wrong,” Mr. Bush said on the same program. “To use executive power that he doesn’t have is a pattern that is quite dangerous.” Describing Mr. Obama as lawless in his use of executive powers, Carly Fiorina argued that addressing gun violence required stricter enforcement of legislation that is already on the books. “We have long lists of criminals who own guns, who routinely purchase guns,” Ms. Fiorina told CNN. “We know who these people are, and we are not prosecuting any of them.” Donald J. Trump said Sunday that Mr. Obama’s reliance on executive actions to deal with gun violence showed his inability to make deals with Congress and promised that he opposes anything that gets in the way of the Second Amendment. At a rally on Saturday, Mr. Trump said that he would do away with any restrictions the president puts on guns if he wins the presidency. “I will veto,” Mr. Trump said. “I will unsign that so fast.” The billionaire businessman also showed no signs of letting up on his attacks against the Clintons, vowing to be the toughest opponent against Hillary Clinton in a general election. “She’s caused death,” Mr. Trump said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” “She’s caused tremendous death with incompetent decisions.” Mr. Trump also defended making an issue out of former President Bill Clinton’s history of extramarital affairs and what Mr. Trump describes as abuse of women. He also tried to make the case that Mrs. Clinton was not a defender of women because of her husband’s behavior. “You know, she’s not an innocent victim,” Mr. Trump told Fox News. “She was the one that would go along with him in this whole game that they play. And you look at what happened with some of the people that he took advantage of and then she gets involved. So she’s not like the innocent person sitting by the side with tears in her eyes.”