 LAS VEGAS — Using strikingly similar pitches, Hillary Clinton, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and former Gov. Martin O’Malley of Maryland tried their best on Wednesday to persuade a room full of Nevada Democrats to support their bids to be the next Democratic presidential nominee. The sold-out event, the Battle Born Battleground First in the West Caucus Dinner, was hosted by the state Democratic Party and Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the minority leader. There was no debate or a question-and-answer session with the audience. Instead, each candidate made separate remarks, pointedly criticizing Republicans. They touched on their plans to keep Americans safe from terrorism, to strengthen the country’s economy, to move toward cleaner energy sources and to address social issues like protecting the working class. About 2,200 people attended the $125-a-seat event, which at times felt like a sporting event with supporters of Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders sitting in large sections on opposite sides of the room and taking turns cheering, waving signs and blowing horns with chants of “H.R.C.” and “Bernie.” Mr. O’Malley’s supporters did not have a similar large section at the dinner but his campaign did set up a table nestled in between his opponent’s tables. The candidates only briefly appeared on stage together before going backstage and coming out one at a time to address the boisterous crowd, where they tried to differentiate themselves from their opponents. Mrs. Clinton seemed to question Mr. Sanders’s plan to make public colleges tuition-free, saying that taxpayers shouldn’t “pay for Donald Trump’s kids to go to college for free.” Mr. Sanders appeared to be taking a shot at Mrs. Clinton by arguing that the change America needs will not come from “establishment politics and establishment economics.” But the candidates saved their harshest critiques for the Republicans. Each said that an immigration overhaul should not include mass deportations, that the American economy should better serve the middle class, and that keeping the country safe from terrorism should not mean vilifying ethnic groups. They also all talked about raising the minimum wage and strengthening the ability of workers to organize and bargain with employers. Mrs. Clinton, a former secretary of state, energetically framed herself as the best candidate to match up against the Republican nominee in the general election. She criticized Senator Marco Rubio of Florida for helping write a 2013 immigration bill and then renouncing it, and Donald J. Trump for wanting to deport millions of immigrants and for referring to Mexicans as criminals. “The Republicans, what do they do? They just promise more new big giveaways to the wealthy at a time when the superrich and big corporations are already gaming the system,” Mrs. Clinton said. “They should pay their fair share, and under my administration they will.” She also laid out her experience as first lady, as a senator from New York and as secretary of state, while adding that Republicans were afraid of her and had already begun attacking her in advertisements. “Ask yourself this, if the Republicans weren’t worried, then why are the hedge fund billionaires already running ads against me?,” Mrs. Clinton said. “Why are the Koch brothers throwing in everything they’ve got to stop me? You know why. They know I will stand up to them and defeat their right-wing, top-down agenda that is bad for America.” Mr. Sanders, an independent and self-described Democratic socialist, continued his focus on income inequality, improving life for working-class Americans and on his plan to break up “too big to fail” commercial banks. He also said that while he agreed with Mrs. Clinton and Mr. O’Malley that the Affordable Care Act had accomplished great things, he added that Americans need an expanded system that guarantees health care for everyone. Mr. Sanders also said that electing Republicans would widen the gap between the rich and poor, and he acknowledged that he would need to galvanize voters if he is to be elected. “The only way that Democrats win elections is when we have a large voter turnout,” Mr. Sanders said. “Republicans win, as they did last year, when people are demoralized and people give up on the political process. What we need in this campaign is energy. We need youth. We need working people. We need a Democratic Party that makes it clear to every worker in this country that we are on their side, and that we are prepared to take on the billionaire class.” Mr. O’Malley sought to portray his experience as what differentiates him from Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders. But he spent most of his time on Wednesday explaining why electing a Republican president would take the country backward. He took several jabs at Mr. Trump’s plan to bar foreign Muslims from entering the United States, and at Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, while also praising President Obama’s executive actions on gun regulations. “Ted Cruz actually says the answer to gun violence is more guns,” Mr. O’Malley said. “Senator, the answer to cancer is not more cancer.​ The answer to poverty is not more poverty. And the answer to gun violence isn’t more guns.” Wednesday’s event was intended to raise awareness about the Nevada caucuses, the power of the state’s increasingly diverse electorate and the West’s growing political influence. Nevada will hold its Democratic caucuses on Feb. 20, making it the third state in the nominating process to vote, after Iowa and New Hampshire. Sue Stephens, 59, a retired budget analyst who lives in Las Vegas, said that she was a registered Republican but that she would consider voting for a Democratic candidate, as she did in the presidential elections of 2008 and 2012. Ms. Stephens said she was most concerned about the economy, gun control, the threat of terrorism and how young people will fare in the future. On Wednesday, she said she would be most supportive of the candidate who delivered a rational message that was focused on the future. Although she had heard all three candidates for the Democratic nomination speak before, she said she had yet to really connect with their messages. “I hear what they’re saying, but I feel like it’s just blah, blah, blah,” Ms. Stephens said. “It sounds so scripted.” She added that she might be swayed by “someone who sounds authentic, and someone who impresses me with their knowledge and with some plans about how to move forward without being extremely radical.” Michelle Gack, 62, a retired insurance adjuster, came to the event with campaign gear showing her support for Mrs. Clinton. Though she has already decided to vote for Mrs. Clinton, she said she hoped her candidate would show a more personable and relatable side so that she draws more support from voters in Nevada. “I think people don’t realize what a nurturing mother and grandmother she is,” Ms. Gack said. “People don’t see that side of her, and it is tough for women to go up against what has traditionally been a man’s world politically. I think it does her a lot of good to show her strength as well as her calm demeanor.” Eduardo Ruiz, 24, of Las Vegas, said that he planned to vote for Mr. Sanders, and that he hoped the senator would show people that he is willing to take somewhat moderate stances if elected, to work with lawmakers. He also said he hoped Mr. Sanders would more thoroughly explain his views as a Democratic socialist and would emphasize the importance of taking part in the political system. “I feel like the biggest problem is that a lot of people who support him don’t believe he can make it,” said Mr. Ruiz, who works at an electronics store. “They are not the most political people, and are just getting started. So that’s my biggest concern. I have friends who write #FeelTheBern. But when push comes to shove, they haven’t signed up to vote.”