 Donald J. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas remain locked in a tight race for the lead in Iowa less than three weeks before the state’s caucuses, according to a new poll.  A survey from Quinnipiac University released on Monday found that 31 percent of likely Republican caucusgoers are planning to back Mr. Trump, while 29 percent support Mr. Cruz. The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.  Mr. Trump and Mr. Cruz remain essentially tied in the crucial state that kicks off the presidential nominating process. Trailing them are Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, at 15 percent, and Ben Carson, the retired neurosurgeon, whose support has dropped to 7 percent. “The Iowa Republican caucuses are tight as a tick entering the final two weeks of the campaign,” said Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Poll.  “Voters like Senator Ted Cruz better than Donald Trump and give him much higher scores for honesty, empathy, experience and for sharing their values.” Mr. Cruz has seen a surge in popularity in Iowa, where the caucuses take place on Feb. 1, in recent months as he has consolidated the support of evangelical Christian voters and as Mr. Carson’s backing has receded. But Mr. Trump has been attacking the Texas senator more aggressively of late, raising questions about the Cruz family’s roots in Cuba and Canada. A December poll from Quinnipiac also showed Mr. Trump leading Mr. Cruz by a single percentage point, suggesting the dynamics in the state are starting to stabilize.  While Mr. Trump remains polarizing in Iowa, he is viewed by many as the best suited to handle the economy and terrorism, which Iowans view as the most important issues facing the country. Republicans in the state also like his stance on immigration, which includes building a wall along the border with Mexico and deporting anyone who has entered the country illegally. Mr. Cruz is seen as stronger generally on foreign policy, more trustworthy and more empathetic than Mr. Trump.  The poll finds that the rest of the Republican field has largely faded in Iowa, with Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey with 4 percent support and former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida at 3 percent.