 IOWA CITY – Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont started a new phase in his presidential campaign here on Sunday, when, after a summer of holding huge rallies, he began using smaller-scale events with voters to make the case that he would be electable as the 2016 Democratic nominee because his liberal views could attract broad political support. He also announced that he would soon deliver a speech describing why he is a democratic socialist, a political ideology that some Democrats fear could be easily caricatured and ultimately derail his candidacy. Speaking to 200 people on a front lawn in this college town, Mr. Sanders, one of two independents in the Senate, sought to frame his call for trillions of dollars in new federal spending and higher taxes on the wealthy as fair-minded proposals to support widely popular ideas. He argued against a likely freeze for cost-of-living adjustments in Social Security benefits in 2016, for instance, saying that retired and disabled Americans deserved more generous benefits and that he would finance them by raising payroll taxes on wealthy Americans. He said his ideas were hardly “radical,” noting that he had attracted a record number of donors – more than 650,000 so far – and raised $26 million from July to September without having a “super PAC” that could take huge sums of money. “The question is, can you win an election without being beholden to millionaires and billionaires?” Mr. Sanders said. “I think you can!” Mr. Sanders also argued that as president he would rally his supporters to put pressure on a Republican-led Congress to pass his agenda – a tactic that he said President Obama should have used. “From a political point of view, Barack Obama didn’t do the right thing,” Mr. Sanders said “What Obama did not do is, when he got into office, say to the Republicans: ‘You’re not negotiating with me. You’re negotiating with tens of millions of people’ ” who voted for Mr. Obama.  “I’m here not just to ask for your help to get me elected president,” Mr. Sanders added. “I’m asking for your help the day after the election.” Speaking to reporters after his remarks, he said he wanted to have more small events “where you can have an opportunity to answer questions and chat in an informal manner” and “where people have a better opportunity to interact with me.” Advisers to Mr. Sanders said the smaller events were critical to addressing doubts about whether he could win the presidential election – a challenge that isn’t well suited to the frenzied environment of his rallies. While Mr. Sanders is not a huge fan of the schmoozing that is a staple of smaller events, he is well aware that he stands to gain if he can go into yards, living rooms and other small settings and persuasively allay concerns about being a democratic socialist or having ideas that congressional Republicans would never support. Mr. Sanders is focusing on Iowa and New Hampshire because victories in those two states – which hold the first nominating contests, in early February – would give him political momentum against his leading opponent, Hillary Rodham Clinton, the former secretary of state, while raising doubts about her as a prospective presidential nominee. (Mrs. Clinton is running ahead of Mr. Sanders in Iowa opinion polls, while he has a small lead in New Hampshire.) “This idea of electability is important to Iowa and New Hampshire Democrats – it’s not something we can blow off,” said Tad Devine, a senior adviser to Mr. Sanders. “We don’t have to convince voters that he is by far the strongest candidate in the race, but we have to convince them that he absolutely crosses the threshold of being able to win the presidency as the Democratic Party. If we don’t get rid of those doubts by the time people vote in February, it will be a real obstacle to winning in those states and going on to win the nomination. “Having Bernie helps deal with electability, as those people share their impressions with their friends and neighbors,” he added. This new strategic imperative is the next step by Mr. Sanders and his advisers toward their goal of building a fully matured, dynamic campaign organization capable of beating Mrs. Clinton. They are trying to expand beyond the huge rallies that were designed to generate media coverage and raised the profile of Mr. Sanders, who is still considerably less well known among voters than Mrs. Clinton. The rallies were also a way to collect names, phone numbers and email addresses from tens of thousands of people; the campaign has been assiduously following up with them about the importance of registering to vote and casting ballots for Mr. Sanders, as well as seeking donations and volunteer help in spreading the Sanders message on social media. In addition to the house party, he planned to attend an afternoon barbecue held by the Johnson County Democratic organization here and then town-hall-style meetings in Fort Madison on Sunday night and Oskaloosa on Monday. In the 2008 Iowa caucuses, Mrs. Clinton carried Lee County, where Fort Madison is, while John Edwards carried Mahaska County, where Oskaloosa is.