 Senator Marco Rubio dismissed Michael R. Bloomberg as “just a private citizen who owns a big company.” Hillary Clinton said she would “relieve” Mr. Bloomberg of any need to enter the presidential race. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey was uncharacteristically charitable, calling Mr. Bloomberg “a good mayor” of New York City. The Republican and Democratic presidential fields on Sunday reacted with deliberate nonchalance, ideological objections and grudging admiration to the specter of Mr. Bloomberg entering the 2016 campaign for the White House. After learning that Mr. Bloomberg had ordered his advisers to draw up a possible plan to seek the presidency, the candidates uniformly sought to project a lack of anxiety, despite the former mayor’s immense wealth and willingness to spend $1 billion on a third-party candidacy that would bypass their party’s primaries. Mrs. Clinton, who remains close with Mr. Bloomberg, was the most pointed. She seized on comments from Mr. Bloomberg’s team that the former mayor would be less likely to run if she won the Democratic nomination. “The way I read what he said is, if I didn’t get the nomination we might consider it,” she said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” She added: “Well, I’m going to relieve him of that and get the nomination so he doesn’t have to” run. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, whose campaign bemoans the influence of the super rich, quickly incorporated Mr. Bloomberg’s flirtation into his message. “My reaction is, if Donald Trump wins and Mr. Bloomberg gets in, you’re going to have two multibillionaires running for president of the United States against me,” Mr. Sanders said on “Meet the Press.” “And I think the American people do not want to see our nation move toward an oligarchy, where billionaires control the political process.” Mr. Trump gamely encouraged Mr. Bloomberg to enter the race. “I’d love to compete against Michael,” he told CBS’s “Face the Nation.” But he mischievously suggested that Mr. Bloomberg was chronically indecisive. “He’s wanted to do this for a long time. He’s never pulled the trigger,” said Mr. Trump, who himself had flirted with earlier presidential bids only to decide against running – until this time. Mr. Bloomberg entered politics as a Republican but changed his party affiliation to Independent and has embraced traditionally liberal social causes, like same-sex marriage and gun control. Republicans zeroed in on those issues Sunday. Jeb Bush, the former Republican governor of Florida, who has served on the board of Mr. Bloomberg’s charitable foundation, called Mr. Bloomberg “a good man” and a “patriot.” But he was quick to point out their differences. “We disagree on a whole lot of things,” Mr. Bush said. Mr. Rubio took a similar route. “Don’t agree with his stance on the Second Amendment and some other issues,” he said on “Fox News Sunday.” Mr. Rubio sensed political opportunity in a presidential field that already includes one billionaire, Mr. Trump, and could soon absorb another in Mr. Bloomberg. He proudly reminded television viewers that the son of a bartender and a maid could seek the same office as the “son of a millionaire,” a reference to Mr. Trump. “In no other country in the world would that be possible,” Mr. Rubio said. Mr. Christie’s praise was not exactly full-throated. He could not judge Mr. Bloomberg, he told CNN’s “State of the Union,” until the former mayor had made up his mind about running for president. The host followed up. Was Mr. Bloomberg a good mayor of New York City? “Oh, yeah,” Mr. Christie said. “He was a good mayor. Sure.” Alexander Burns contributed reporting.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.