 Updated, 6:43 p.m. | Gov. Chris Christie apologized Tuesday for having labeled a New Jersey mayor as “crazy” after the mayor suggested that flooding from last weekend’s blizzard was worse than during Hurricane Sandy. But Mr. Christie expressed no regrets about the brevity of his return to New Jersey for the snowstorm, and stood by his dismissive response to a voter who suggested Monday night that he had returned to campaigning too quickly as his state recovered from the storm. (“Do you want me to go down there with a mop?” he asked sarcastically.) Mr. Christie said that the comment had been a joke and that he suspected the question had been planted by rivals seeking to undermine his campaign. The young woman had described herself as having family and friends in New Jersey affected by the storm, but Mr. Christie said she had declined to share any details about how to contact them. “I think she was a plant, quite frankly, because she wouldn’t give any of the information,” Mr. Christie said at a news conference in Trenton about Atlantic City’s financial crisis. “I genuinely wanted to call her family members who were concerned.” He added, “Either she’s a really shy person who decided to ask the first question in a town-hall meeting, and just overcame her shyness for that period of time, or something else was afoot.” Mr. Christie acknowledged, however, that he had called Mayor Patrick Rosenello of North Wildwood on Tuesday morning and apologized for having insulted him at the same meeting. Though Mr. Christie said his comment had been “over the top,” he stood by his assessment that the scale of damage from the blizzard over the weekend did not approach that caused by Hurricane Sandy in 2012. “I mean, it’s not even close,” he said. “It’s not even in the same ballpark.” Mr. Rosenello had said that in his town, the flooding was worse this past weekend than it had been during Hurricane Sandy. After the governor called him “crazy,” the mayor said, “I’m not going to speculate on whether his position on this storm is in any way shape or form related to his presidential ambitions,” according to The Philadelphia Inquirer. On Tuesday Mr. Rosenello said in an interview that he had not meant that the damage in his town, which was not as badly hit by the 2012 hurricane as towns farther north, exceeded the hurricane damage in those towns. But because of “miscommunication,” he said, his remark had been interpreted that way. While the governor told reporters Tuesday that he was friends with the mayor and that they had known each other for several years, Mr. Rosenello said that he has never exactly been close friends with Mr. Christie. “We’re not drinking buddies,” he said. But he had been an early supporter in his run for governor. “I remember the first time I met him, nobody knew who he was,” Mr. Rosenello. “I was introducing him to people.” He said Mr. Christie has met his children, and they look up to him. “There was a personal element I reacted to,” Mr. Rosenello, 43, said. “It was surprising to me to hear those comments, and I’m grateful he took the time to call me and apologize.” More than anything, though, the mayor has just been left surprised by the attention paid to the back-and-forth. “I got sucked into a vortex there I never imagined, never wanted to experience, and never want to experience again,” Mr. Rosenello said. “It’s not what I signed up for whenever I became mayor of a small town.”