 In a city packed with celebrities, Senator Bernie Sanders strutted around Manhattan on Monday causing some chaos as screaming fans, selfie-snapping supporters and surprised workers mobbed him. Mr. Sanders walked about 14 Midtown blocks, shaking hands, hugging people and waving as several cars honked horns. Many people he encountered froze with their mouths hanging open or locked in a smile. The brief trip led several people to shout out to the Vermont senator: “Keep it going, Bernie! … Go get ‘em! … Our next president!” Others vowed to support Mr. Sanders as Secret Service agents circled him and more than a dozen journalists crowded in front of him recording.  “I’m getting up at 6 a.m. to vote for you,” one man said of Tuesday’s New York primary.  One man stood on the sidewalk smiling but offering his predicament. “If I wasn’t a felon I would vote for you,” he said. Another person, though, was not impressed. “Booooo,” said a man in sunglasses as he quickly walked by Mr. Sanders. The senator eventually made his way to striking Verizon workers to cheer on Communications Workers of America Local 1101 union members. There, workers repeated, “Bernie, Bernie, Bernie,” as Mr. Sanders waded through hundreds of people. “I just want to say a word to thank all of you for the courage to stand up for justice and against corporate greed,” Mr. Sanders said through a megaphone. “We will not tolerate large profitable corporations sending jobs to low wage countries, throwing American workers out on the street, cutting back on health care benefits, and then playing their C.E.O. $18 million a year.” He added some familiar themes from his campaign, and an optimistic look ahead of Tuesday’s voting, which has been considered crucial to the Sanders campaign in its hope of derailing Hillary Clinton’s bid for the Democratic presidential nomination. “That is the kind of greed that is destroying the American middle class,” Mr. Sanders said. “You’re standing up for justice and I applaud what you are doing. We are going to win this thing.”