 Senator Ted Cruz has “nowhere else to turn.” Jeb Bush is “counting on you.” Senator Marco Rubio “needs you to hear this.” Senator Rand Paul “needs all hands on deck.” It’s that special time of year, the one where email inboxes are inundated with pleading and repetitive donation requests from political campaigns as the looming fund-raising deadline inches closer. But the begging has seemed more incessant this quarter, most likely because it’s the last fund-raising deadline before most of the nominating contests are to be held. Small-dollar donations, which are what most email pitches generate, are another sign of a campaign’s strength and support, or as Mr. Cruz likes to call it in speeches, a sign that his supporters have “skin in the game.” The Clinton campaign has hit this note directly, telling her supporters in an email, “Tomorrow’s fund-raising deadline is a big deal — it gives the political world a chance to try to assess the strength of our campaign.” (A quick note here: a lot of these emails purport to come from the candidates themselves. Sure, there is a slight chance they actually may have written one or part of it, but often the emails are written and sent out by the campaign’s digital team. Mrs. Clinton’s email address is not, for example, “info@hillaryclinton.com.”) Some campaigns have already released preliminary fund-raising reports: Ben Carson’s campaign said it raised approximately $23 million in the fourth quarter, while Mr. Cruz raised nearly $20 million in the same period. And the Clinton campaign is expected to have raised $100 million for the year, according to CNN. But that hasn’t stopped candidates from asking. Mr. Paul’s campaign has sent out 17 fund-raising emails since Christmas, and Mr. Cruz’s campaign has sent out 10 in the same time. If the pleading feels disingenuous or just irritating, well, it works, as evidenced by the infamous fund-raising of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee’s emails in 2014 that even earned a mocking Tumblr page. But with so many campaigns hitting similar desperate notes, a few have tried a new method: shared misery. Former Gov. Martin O’Malley of Maryland told his supporters, “I hate doing it, and I know you hate being asked,” and pleaded with them to donate so he can “get out of this room” and back on the campaign trail. And Senator Bernie Sanders’s campaign has sent out numerous fund-raising emails, part of the backbone of the more than 2 million contributions powering his campaign. But even success hasn’t led the senator to come around on enjoying campaign finance. As he wrote in an email this morning: “Raising money is one of the worst parts of having to run for office in this country.” A link to donate followed three paragraphs later.