 Updated, 1:51 p.m. | Gov. John Kasich is at risk of losing his home turf of Ohio to Donald J. Trump, according to a new poll that shows the billionaire Republican presidential candidate leading in the state. A Quinnipiac University survey released on Tuesday found that 31 percent of likely Republican primary voters in Ohio back Mr. Trump, while 26 percent support Mr. Kasich. Senator Ted Cruz trails them with 21 percent, followed by Senator Marco Rubio with 13 percent and Ben Carson with 5 percent. Ohio will be a big prize when it holds its primary on March 15. Mr. Kasich, a popular governor in the state, will be under pressure to drop out of the race if he fails to win over the voters who know him best.  “A Kasich Ohio win is crucial to the Republicans trying to stop the New York businessman’s nomination,” said Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the Quinnipiac University poll.  “If Trump can defeat Kasich in his home state, that would be an impressive demonstration of his strength in a state that is just now getting attention.” Mr. Cruz and Mr. Rubio will face similar pressure to hold their home states of Texas and Florida next month.  Mr. Kasich addressed the poll findings Tuesday at the Georgia State Capitol after addressing the state’s House and Senate: “Everybody’s getting slaughtered in their state, but we’re within the margin of error, and we’ll win Ohio, there’s no question about it,” he told reporters. He added that it was “very, very close, and we put a little effort in, I’m not worried. The last thing I worry about is how we’ll do in Ohio. We’ll win Ohio.” Opponents of Mr. Trump can take some solace in the poll’s findings that his favorability rating is the lowest of the remaining Republican candidates, suggesting that when the field shrinks further voters may not necessarily turn to him. However, his supporters appear to be the most passionate, with more than three-fourths saying that they will definitely back him.  On the Democratic side in Ohio, Hillary Clinton leads Senator Bernie Sanders by a wide gap, of 55 percent to 40 percent.   The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points. 