 Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders escalated their battle over health care and gun control on Wednesday as the race for the Democratic presidential nomination intensified. The back-and-forth began when Mr. Sanders gave Mrs. Clinton fresh material to criticize him with on health care policy, an issue the two have tangled over for days. Mr. Sanders had vowed to release details of how he would pay for his Medicare-for-all proposal before the Feb. 1 Iowa caucuses. But when his campaign released a chart listing how he would pay for many of his costly proposals, the plan for universal health coverage – which some estimates suggest could top $15 trillion – was not on the list. In addition, Mr. Sanders’s campaign manager, Jeff Weaver, told CNN that, in fact, Mr. Sanders might not disclose those numbers before the caucuses — the sort of backtracking that has rankled Mrs. Clinton’s allies, who believe the Vermont senator is often held to a lesser standard than she is. Mrs. Clinton and her team pounced. On a conference call with reporters, a campaign spokesman, Brian Fallon, said it was “alarming” that Mr. Sanders had not yet detailed how he would pay for his health care plan. And her campaign’s policy director, Jake Sullivan, asserted that it was “simply not possible” to implement Mr. Sanders’s proposal without raising taxes on the middle class. (Mr. Weaver, interviewed on MSNBC late Wednesday, avoided the word tax, but acknowledged there could be an “income-based premium for families” in the eventual Sanders Medicare plan.)  Of course, Mrs. Clinton has advocated a single-payer health care system for years, before President Obama’s push for the Affordable Care Act. In an interview with ABC News early Wednesday, she stressed that she was not faulting Mr. Sanders for supporting a single-payer plan, just for his lack of specificity. “Tell the people how much it will cost them,” she said. “Every analysis shows it’s going to cost middle-class families and working families.” Mrs. Clinton has also used the issue, as she has with gun control, to try to play up her ties to Mr. Obama, who remains broadly popular among Democratic primary voters, and to cast Mr. Sanders as at odds with the president. But Mr. Sanders and his allies struck back Wednesday afternoon, suggesting that Mrs. Clinton was hitting him from the right. Interviewed on MSNBC, Mr. Sanders defended his record on gun safety, boasting that the National Rifle Association had given him a D-minus for his votes on firearms restrictions, and said he lost a congressional election in 1988 after suggesting a ban on assault weapons. “To say that I’m kind of a supporter of the N.R.A. is really a mean-spirited and unfair and inaccurate statement,” Mr. Sanders said. He also accused Mrs. Clinton of hypocrisy regarding his plan for a single-payer health system. In Iowa this week, Mrs. Clinton warned that Mr. Sanders’s plan was problematic because it would give governors oversight of health coverage in their state. This would potentially give control over the market to Republicans, which Mrs. Clinton said was “risky.” On Wednesday, Mr. Sanders countered that Mrs. Clinton’s assertion was “factually incorrect” because his plans to overhaul the health insurance market would be implemented by the federal government in states whose governors opposed it. “Now she’s attacking me because I support universal health care,” Mr. Sanders said. “In 2008 she was attacking Obama because Obama was attacking her because she supported universal health care.” But a tougher response came from Democracy for America, the progressive political action committee based in Burlington, Vt., that supports Mr. Sanders. In a statement, officials with the group, which grew out of Howard Dean’s failed 2004 presidential campaign, called Mrs. Clinton’s attacks on Mr. Sanders lies that could endanger Democrats. “The bald-faced lies about Bernie Sanders’s strong record against gun violence and the right-wing attacks on his support for single-payer health care coming from the Clinton campaign have no place in a Democratic primary,” said Charles Chamberlain, executive director of Democracy for America. He also accused Mrs. Clinton of shifting positions on the issue. “Democrats deserve better than to see her flip-flop on that core value now that her progressive opponent is surging in the polls.” Before endorsing Mr. Sanders, Democracy for America, along with other liberal groups like MoveOn.org, had sought to draft Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, into the presidential race as an alternative to Mrs. Clinton. What was striking about the attacks on Mr. Sanders over health care was that they were being delivered by Mrs. Clinton and her campaign, rather than by unrelated surrogates. Her daughter, Chelsea, has also joined in the offensive, asserting in New Hampshire on Tuesday that Mr. Sanders “wants to dismantle Obamacare, dismantle the CHIP program, dismantle Medicare and dismantle private insurance.” (Mr. Sanders denies this, saying he “helped write the Affordable Care Act.”) “You know, I adore my daughter and I know what she was saying,” Hillary Clinton told ABC News on Wednesday morning. “Because if you look at Senator Sanders’s proposals going back nine times in the Congress, that’s exactly what he’s proposed. To take everything we currently know as health care, Medicare, Medicaid, the CHIP Program, private insurance, now of the Affordable Care Act, and roll it together.” Former President Bill Clinton, campaigning for his wife in New Hampshire, declined to join in the attack on Mr. Sanders, though he allowed that vigorous debate between the two Democrats was a good thing. “All they’re doing now, or should be doing, is talking about the differences in their positions,” he said Wednesday afternoon at Keene State College. “That’s good, that’s healthy for democracy.” Amy Chozick and Nick Corasaniti contributed reporting.
