 KENNESAW, Ga. – Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, his momentum seemingly stunted by Gov. Chris Christie’s endorsement of Donald J. Trump, said Saturday that he would not stop ridiculing Mr. Trump as he tries to capitalize on  fears among Republicans about the businessman’s candidacy. “It’s clear now that if we’re going to save the Republican Party from being taken over by a con artist, we’re going to have to start making the case more aggressively,” Mr. Rubio said before appearing at a rally at a high school football stadium near Atlanta. “And I’m more than happy to do it. The stakes are that high and that important.” On Saturday afternoon, the beginning of Mr. Rubio’s stump speech included his new zingers about the investments, corporate bankruptcies and temperament of the mogul who has dismissed him as a “lightweight.” “This is a massive fraud that he’s perpetuating,” Mr. Rubio said before cracking wise about “Hair Force One” and Mr. Trump having “the worst spray tan in America.” “Donald Trump likes to sue people,” Mr. Rubio said to laughter and applause. “He should sue whoever did that to his face.” At his news conference, Mr. Rubio vowed to stay on the attack. “We look forward to examining his record over the next few days and weeks,” he said, “and we have confidence in what that’s going to mean.” But Mr. Rubio, whose supporters greeted the assault on Mr. Trump with laughs and scattered jeers, faced more questions on Saturday about whether he had enough time to stall Mr. Trump’s march toward the Republican nomination. Asked whether he would win any states on Super Tuesday – a day that might leave him without a single victory through the year’s first contests – Mr. Rubio deflected. “We’re going to keep working hard to pick up as many delegates as we can, and we’re going to continue to work forward irrespective of Tuesday,” he said. “We feel good about Tuesday. We’re going to get a lot of delegates on Tuesday. We want to win states on Tuesday.” Although Mr. Trump is expected to win most of Georgia’s 76 delegates, Mr. Rubio is making a significant investment of time in the state before Tuesday’s balloting. In addition to his stop on Saturday, Mr. Rubio will visit Atlanta on Monday. He is hardly alone in contesting the state, which Senator Ted Cruz of Texas also visited Saturday. Ben Carson, the retired pediatric neurosurgeon, will appear at a church south of Atlanta on Sunday, and Mr. Trump has scheduled a Monday evening rally near the border with Florida.