 When questions arose in 2008 about whether Senator John McCain was a “natural born citizen” qualified to be president because he was born in the Panama Canal Zone, where his father was stationed, his Senate colleagues were outraged. They bristled at the very thought that there could be any doubt whatsoever that the respected Republican lawmaker and war hero from Arizona was eligible under the Constitution. Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, was so worked up at the idea that on the day The New York Times published the article examining the issue, she arrived at the Capitol with corrective legislation written in longhand on a yellow legal pad.  “In America, so many parents say to their young children, ‘If you work hard and you play by the rules, in America someday you can be president of the United States,’ ” Ms. McCaskill said at the time. “Our brave and respected military should never have to spend a minute worrying whether or not that saying is true for their child.” The Senate passed a nonbinding resolution declaring that “John Sidney McCain, III, is a ‘natural born citizen’ under Article II, Section 1 of the Constitution of the United States.” Whether that bipartisan resolution would have carried the day legally was never tested, and Mr. McCain lost the presidency to Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, who was a co-sponsor of the McCain resolution.  The natural born citizen issue is back as Donald J. Trump raises questions about Senator Ted Cruz, who has overtaken Mr. Trump in several polls in Iowa and who was born in Canada, though his mother was a United States citizen. The 2008 Senate resolution was specific to Mr. McCain, and his status as the offspring of a member of the military serving abroad.  Now the question is, will the Senate again weigh in to clarify the constitutional status of another one of its members and declare Mr. Cruz eligible to be president? Somehow, given Mr. Cruz’s strained relations with those on both sides of the aisle, it seems unlikely. For most of them, assisting Mr. Cruz would amount to a foreign concept. For his part, when asked on “The Chris Merrill Show” if Mr. Cruz was eligible to hold the presidency, Mr. McCain said, “I don’t know the answer to that.” Mr. Trump, in interviews this week, suggested that Mr. Cruz’s birthplace could invite legal challenges. “It’s a problem for him, and it’s a problem obviously for the Republicans,” Mr. Trump said on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe.” Critics of Mr. Cruz have questioned his eligibility to be president for some time. Senator John McCain, who was born in the Panama Canal Zone, faced similar questions when he ran for president in 2008. Mr. Cruz was born in 1970 in Calgary, Alberta, to an American-born mother and a Cuban-born father. His parents were in Canada working in the oil business.  Mr. Cruz was an American citizen at birth because of his mother’s citizenship. The Constitution, in Article II, requires the president to be a “natural born citizen.” But the Constitution does not define that term, which is why Mr. Cruz, and other presidential candidates before him, have faced questions about their eligibility. The general view among legal scholars is that “anyone who acquires citizenship at birth is natural born for purposes of Article II,” as Sarah Helene Duggin, a law professor at Catholic University, wrote in 2013. Paul D. Clement, who served as solicitor general in the administration of President George W. Bush, and Neal K. Katyal, who served as acting solicitor general in the Obama administration, took up the subject in the Harvard Law Review last year. To understand the term “natural born citizen” as written by the framers of the Constitution, they pointed to British common law and legislative action by the First Congress.  “Both confirm that the original meaning of the phrase ‘natural born Citizen’ includes persons born abroad who are citizens from birth based on the citizenship of a parent,” they wrote.  In Mr. Cruz’s case, they concluded that “despite the happenstance of a birth across the border, there is no question that Senator Cruz has been a citizen from birth and is thus a ‘natural born Citizen’ within the meaning of the Constitution.” — Thomas Kaplan