 ORANGEBURG, S.C. — About 15 minutes into his stump speech at a barbecue restaurant here on Friday, Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio turned to discuss “the glue that keeps us all together.” “The power of the Lord,” he told the crowd. Mr. Kasich recalled that when he was a little boy, his father would have to pick his mother up late at night, driving on a winding, narrow road. He said he had always worried that they wouldn’t come home one night — though they always did. “But in 1987, I’m in Washington, D.C., and I get a phone call,” he said. “They didn’t come home one night. A drunk driver hit them and killed my father on site, and my mother died the next day.” The crowd, sitting at long tables covered in red-and-white checkered tablecloths, let out gasps. “Has anybody ever been where your whole world was black, and you got a little pinprick of light?” Mr. Kasich asked. “And then when you see that, you know you got to just take it one hour at a time.” “That’s when you know you got to lean on something bigger than yourself,” he said, “and I went through it, and I got to tell you: The Lord gave me the grace to fully recover and put me in a position to be aware of other people’s problems.” “My parents didn’t die in vain,” he added, “because I found the Lord, in a real way.” Mr. Kasich brought up the story on the same day his campaign released a new television commercial in South Carolina that invokes his parents’ death, one of two ads the campaign rolled out on Friday. The message was about the same as what he said at the restaurant here: “I discovered my purpose by discovering the Lord,” Mr. Kasich says in the ad. Mr. Kasich thrived in more secular New Hampshire by appealing to moderate voters eager for a president who can balance budgets and work with both parties. Only a quarter of the voters in the state’s Republican primary on Tuesday described themselves as born-again or evangelical Christians, and of those voters, only about 1 in 10 supported Mr. Kasich, according to exit polls. In South Carolina, Mr. Kasich has stuck to his centrist message, but his campaign is also stressing his faith. About two-thirds of the state’s Republican primary voters in 2012 were born-again or evangelical Christians, according to exit polls.