 VIENNA, Ohio — Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey couldn’t have been nicer to Donald J. Trump as they campaigned together in Ohio and North Carolina on the eve of Tuesday’s primaries in both states. Mr. Trump, not so much. Targeting the Ohio governor, John Kasich, his chief rival in the state’s primary, Mr. Trump berated Mr. Kasich here on Monday evening for being an absentee for his time away from Ohio last fall and winter as he campaigned in New Hampshire. The only other sitting governor or senator who was in New Hampshire as much as Mr. Kasich was Mr. Christie, who has since dropped out and endorsed Mr. Trump. While most politicians would conveniently forget that fact, to spare Mr. Christie the humiliation, Mr. Trump actually highlighted it. “Your Governor Kasich, if you look at him, and I’m being totally impartial, he goes to New Hampshire, he’s living in New Hampshire,” Mr. Trump said. “Is Chris around? He was there even more than Chris.” Mr. Christie, fortunately, was offstage. The Ohio remarks were an extension of a theme that Mr. Trump started in North Carolina earlier in the day. In Hickory, Mr. Christie was the questioner at a makeshift town hall event, an often-fawning role that other supporters of Mr. Trump have filled at previous events. Mr. Trump told the crowd that he had excelled in every debate. If not, he said, he probably wouldn’t have done so well in the campaign. “I would have been like the other people — out!” Mr. Trump said, as Mr. Christie scratched the back of his neck in the seat across from him. Mr. Trump wasn’t so much trying to embarrass Mr. Christie as tear down Mr. Kasich, whom he attacked repeatedly during his final rally before Tuesday’s voting. Mr. Trump was not coy about the reason: He acknowledged that the Ohio contest looked like the closest of the day’s five primaries. Mr. Kasich, who is popular among many Republicans in his home state, has a small lead over Mr. Trump in some Ohio polls. “Kasich cannot make America great again, can’t do it, can’t do it,” Mr. Trump said, dismissing the state’s positive economic figures as a result of lucky oil strikes. “If you didn’t hit oil — that wasn’t because of him, believe me — you would have had a disaster.” Mr. Trump argued that Mr. Kasich would destroy the auto industry in Ohio by negotiating more free trade deals that would lead American companies to shift jobs to other countries. That is a charge that resonates deeply with many Ohioans who blame the North American Free Trade Agreement for destroying the economy in once-thriving cities like nearby Youngstown.  Mr. Trump drew boos as he noted that Mr. Kasich supports the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the 12-nation trade deal President Obama has negotiated. “It’s going to take all of your car business out,” Mr. Trump warned about the trade deal. “The car business is going to be destroyed by TPP.” “Your governor is totally overrated, he hasn’t done a thing,” Mr. Trump said, urging people to get a good night’s sleep and then wake up to help him beat their governor.