 Former President George W. Bush offered a holiday message of optimism and encouragement to donors on a private conference call with Jeb Bush’s national finance team on Friday. “I am very upbeat about our chances of winning,” said the former president, according to audio from the call and descriptions provided by bundlers who took part. “Jeb is a candidate who is peaking at the right time, I guess is the best way to put it. As we head into the actual voting season I feel very good about our chances.” The president said his younger brother had demonstrated “vision” in Tuesday’s Republican presidential debate in Las Vegas. “One of the things I thought Jeb showed very well is he can be decisive after weighing all options and that’s what’s necessary to be a good president,” he said. “One of the key questions that voters need to ask is, does the person understand how important it is to put together a really competent team, and because of Jeb’s executive experience and because he’s a thoughtful person, I’m confident he’s best qualified to do that.” Mr. Bush, the 43rd president, remains popular with the Republican Party’s grass-roots base, and Jeb Bush’s campaign has been debating how best to deploy him during the nominating fight. No decisions have been made, but one likely option is to send him on the campaign trial in South Carolina early next year, according to people with knowledge of the discussions. But the former president has also posed problems for his brother, who early on fumbled the question of whether he would have authorized the 2003 invasion of Iraq, as George W. Bush did, knowing what he now knows. And he has repeatedly been forced to confront the legacy of his family and the more existential question of whether the nation can stomach a third leader from the same political dynasty. The former president also took several questions on the call. The first, about foreign policy, prompted him to note that he expects foreign policy to be “one of the really important aspects of this campaign.” “The reason it is an important part of the campaign in 2016 is because Americans are fearful of an enemy that struck us when I was president and obviously wants to do so again,” he said. Asked what he makes of the national polls — where Jeb Bush sits in the single digits — and what’s driving voters, George W. Bush echoed the campaign’s message, that voters in primary states often decided which candidate to support in the days before ballots are cast. He also noted that his brother may have an advantage in states, like the early voting ones, that expect to see the candidate in person on a regular basis. Jeb Bush, for instance, plans to camp out in New Hampshire before and after the holidays, and spend more than half of his time campaigning there. “No one is going to outwork Jeb,” he said. “He’s a fierce competitor and in early primary states he is doing what is necessary.” Yet, while dismissing the early polls, he also obliquely addressed the phenomenon of Donald J. Trump, without mentioning his name. “It’s an interesting year, of course, because of the earned media that some candidates are getting,” the former president said. “But there’s a big difference between paying attention to someone and actually deciding to vote for someone.” George W. Bush also talked about his brother’s relationship with his wife, Columba, who he met as a high school student in Mexico, saying his devotion to her shows his character. “I believe that his marriage, as it becomes better known, will be a tremendous asset to his campaign for many reasons,” Mr. Bush said. Woody Johnson, the owner of the New York Jets and Jeb Bush’s finance chairman, who was also on the call, plans to host a fund-raiser on Saturday in Texas, where the Jets will be playing the Dallas Cowboys. The former president is expected to attend. On the call, Mr. Johnson promoted Jeb Bush’s feisty debate performance Tuesday, when he stood up to Mr. Trump, talking about how the entire nation was finally able to see what the Bush team has long known — that Jeb Bush is best qualified to be commander in chief. But, Mr. Johnson added, “Unfortunately that’s not the best venue for us, the debate stage — not the best venue for anybody.” The call was brief, with the former president saying he needed to go out and buy holiday gifts — and noting how his life had changed since he occupied the White House.  “They used to wrap them for me when I was president,” he said, to laughter.