 Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who is seeking to gain ground in Republican states dominated by conservatives, this week endorsed the idea of amending the Constitution to set term limits in Congress and the Supreme Court. Mr. Rubio had said in the past that he was open to such an undertaking. But over the last two days in Iowa, where he is behind in the polls, Mr. Rubio has made a call for a Constitutional Convention, earning applause every time.  At times, the proposal can sound like a civics lesson. “Article V of the Constitution,” Mr. Rubio said in Pella, Iowa, on Wednesday, “gives us power as citizens of this great country to take into our own hands the ability to take power away from the federal government.” He added, “That’s why we need a Constitutional Convention.” Mr Rubio said he would use the mechanism to achieve two goals: a balanced budget amendment — because “Congress will never pass that” — and term limits on both federal lawmakers and federal judges.  “We will push for both,” Mr. Rubio said.  But Mr. Rubio has not explained how he would organize support for a Constitutional Convention that has not been tried, seriously, in decades, across a country that is starkly divided on basic issues, let alone on how to alter the most sacred governing document in the country.  Mr. Rubio is facing concerns from conservatives that he is insufficiently committed to their issues, primarily because of his role in the attempts to pass comprehensive immigration overhaul legislation in 2013.  Mr. Rubio made clear that he was calling not for an open constitutional convention but a limited   convention of states, a narrower mechanism by which he would make the changes to term limits and also call for a mandatory balanced federal budget. Mark Meckler, the president of Citizens for Self-Governance and co-founder of the Convention of States Project, praised Mr. Rubio. “Now that a top-tier candidate like Senator Rubio has endorsed, the Convention of States Project has moved front and center in the presidential political debate,” he said.