 There are any number of sports metaphors that could be applied to the type of game Donald J. Trump was playing at the 12th Republican primary debate on Thursday night. Whether you call it running out the clock, playing keep-away or working the pitcher’s count, Mr. Trump was looking to escape the last face-off before the March 15 states hold their primaries having done as little harm to himself as possible. In last week’s debate, Mr. Trump made an early reference to the size of his genitalia as he fended off attacks from Senators Ted Cruz of Texas and Marco Rubio of Florida. In this contest, he seemed almost sedated as he sought to project an air of seriousness and sobriety. Mr. Trump has scoffed at critics who suggest he should act more presidential, but that appeared to be on his mind at the debate. Gone were the belittling comments about “Little Marco” and “Lyin’ Ted.” He barely acknowledged Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio. Instead Mr. Trump, the billionaire real-estate developer and reality television star, sought to protect his position as the Republican front-runner and avoid making any memorable errors on policy. He occasionally made candid statements, like when he acknowledged that he might take donations in earnest if he becomes the nominee and give up the partly true claim that he is self-funding his candidacy. And he stood by his statements questioning the Islamic faith, although he declined to repeat what he had said a night earlier, that “Islam hates us.” He said that there are “bad dudes” who protest his rallies, although, despite his own language at his events, he insisted he does not condone violence. The party needs to unify, he said more than once.   As for Mr. Cruz and Mr. Rubio, they too, somewhat inexplicably, stuck to the civil tone of the evening, giving no sense of the urgency of the task of stopping Mr. Trump that they have talked about on the campaign trail. Mr. Rubio, who hopes to have a political future down the road, tried to sound the aspirational notes that his message had before he devolved into a festival of insults with Mr. Trump. Mr. Cruz got in some barbs suggesting that Mr. Trump was more interested in himself than in voters. But they were lines that probably would have been more effective before this late stage of the game. And it is hard to see the debate altering the state of the race.