 Updated, 9:21 a.m. | Senator Ted Cruz, smarting over Donald J. Trump’s menacing Twitter messages about his wife, thrashed his rival on Thursday and warned him to “leave Heidi the hell alone.” Calling Mr. Trump a “small and petty man” who is easily cowed by “strong women,” Mr. Cruz said in front of  reporters in Wisconsin,  “Donald, you’re a sniveling coward.” The sparring comes as Mr. Trump is facing renewed scrutiny for his attitudes toward women, with an anti-Trump “super PAC,” Our Principles PAC, running an ad in which actresses repeat some of his more pointed insults of women and comments about their appearance. The attack was the latest in an intensifying skirmish that began late Tuesday, when Mr. Trump took to Twitter and threatened to “spill the beans” about Mrs. Cruz, without giving any specifics. He blamed the Texas senator for a “super PAC” ad that appeared in Utah and featured Mr. Trump’s wife, Melania, a former model, during a nude photo shoot. But Mr. Cruz has no connection to the group responsible for the spot. Late Wednesday, Mr. Trump further taunted the Texas senator, posting another message on Twitter from a supporter that included an unflattering picture of Mrs. Cruz, juxtaposed with an image of Mrs. Trump. “No need to ‘spill the beans,’” read the accompanying text. “The images are worth a thousand words.” Mr. Trump’s attacks on Heidi Cruz come as the Republican Party has been struggling in recent elections with a drift of female support, and with Democrats making strong inroads among female voters in recent presidential elections. In the 2012 race, exit polls showed women were 10 points more likely to support Mr. Obama than men were. In the most recent New York Times/CBS News poll, Mrs. Clinton led Mr. Trump among women, 55 percent to 35 percent. And women made up 53 percent of the electorate in the 2012 presidential election. At his news conference, Mr. Cruz raised the prospect of telling his daughters, ages 7 and 5, about the episode.  “Our girls are going to come join us on the road later this afternoon,” he said. “I’m not looking forward to telling the girls why Donald Trump is launching insults and attacks at their mommy.” Mr. Cruz was asked if he could still support Mr. Trump as the Republican nominee, as he has pledged to do if Mr. Trump wins. “Donald Trump will not be the nominee,” he said. “Donald Trump will not be the nominee.” Hope Hicks, a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, responded that Mr. Cruz also bears some guilt by association, for refusing to denounce the negative ads about Mrs. Trump.  “Senator Cruz should have disavowed the super PAC acting on his behalf,” she said in a statement. “Melania was an extremely successful model and she does not deserve to be used in any political attack ad. Senator Cruz continues to go after Mr. Trump on this issue in an attempt to keep his failing campaign relevant.” Mr. Cruz did denounce the ad on Wednesday, calling it “completely inappropriate” and stressing that his campaign had nothing to do with it. 