 Jeb Bush has ordered across-the-board pay cuts and slashed staff positions at his Miami headquarters — a drastic shake-up for a campaign that has performed far short of early expectations. According to an internal memo, Mr. Bush plans to reduce payroll costs by 40 percent this week, cut salaries for all but the most entry level staff members, cut travel costs by 20 percent and significantly reduce headquarters staff. A quarter will remain in Miami, a quarter have already been dispatched to early-voting states, and most of the rest are being offered positions in early states or as part of ballot access efforts, but with pay cuts, the memo said. “We will be working with staff today and going through each person’s situation, but expect sizable changes,” Danny Diaz, Mr. Bush’s campaign manager, said by email on Friday. The memo, reported by Bloomberg News on Friday morning, cast the changes as foresighted, arguing that Mr. Bush remained best positioned to win the nomination and the general election and highlighting his extensive field operations in early-voting states. The campaign is planning to place even more emphasis on New Hampshire, which was already seen as critical to Mr. Bush’s fortunes, and the memo said that voters across Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada should expect “to see more visits from Jeb and longer trips.” Still, the memo acknowledged that the race has veered sharply off course, particularly with the rise of Donald J. Trump. “It’s no secret that the contours of this race have changed from what was anticipated at the start,” the memo said, adding, somewhat defensively, ”We would be less than forthcoming if we said we predicted in June that a reality television star supporting Canadian-style single-payer health care and partial-birth abortion would be leading the G.O.P. primary.”
 For weeks, Mr. Bush has languished in the polls, both nationally and in the early voting states. Back-to-back polls in Iowa, by Quinnipiac University on Thursday and The Des Moines Register and Bloomberg on Friday, showed Mr. Bush with support from 5 percent of Iowa caucus voters. The spending cuts by Mr. Bush’s campaign follow an initial series of staff members’ salary reductions over the summer. In a statement, Kristy Campbell, Mr. Bush’s spokeswoman, said the campaign was “making changes today to ensure Jeb is best positioned to win the nomination and general election.” “We are moving our resources into the states to ensure that voters in primary and caucus states are introduced to his record and vision for the future,” she said. The shift comes days before a major gathering of donors in Houston, where two former presidents — Jeb’s brother George W. Bush, and his father, George Bush — are expected to appear and where aides will work to assuage concerns that the campaign has lost its way. One top Bush adviser said the former Florida governor had built a campaign staff geared for a front-runner, on the presumption that he would raise the sort of money that Hillary Rodham Clinton has amassed on the Democratic side. But he has not, and other candidates are competing for the support of the same right-of-center Republicans as Mr. Bush. “The problem is the field is huge, donors are on the sidelines and nobody will get out even if they have no path,” said this adviser, who insisted on anonymity. “We have a path we’ll execute.” Mr. Bush’s deep cutbacks were perhaps the most telling admission that he will be unable to match the structure of his brother’s well-funded and sprawling 2000 campaign. In public and in private, Mr. Bush has invoked another example of late, recalling an encounter in October 2007 with Sen. John McCain at the Atlanta airport. “He’s carrying his bag, he has no aide, he’s running for president, he has no staff,” Mr. Bush said in New Hampshire last month. “The campaign was basically over. Everybody said it. All the pundits said, ‘It’s over, why waste your time?’” But Mr. McCain persisted, Mr. Bush said, implicitly drawing an analogy-cum-prediction for his current race. “He won New Hampshire, he won Florida, he won the nomination and he should have been president,” Mr. Bush said. But many Republicans, including those supportive of Mr. Bush, are deeply worried about his campaign, believing that the candidate’s performance has been lackluster. Mr. Bush’s first round of spending cuts began in August, when several top aides took pay cuts and some department budgets were trimmed, but continued until the end of the fund-raising quarter. Friday’s changes were discussed on a conference call with donors led by Mr. Diaz and Sally Bradshaw, Mr. Bush’s top adviser. Still, party leaders who had great hopes for Mr. Bush – who entered the race hoping to intimidate other rivals into abandoning the field – expressed dismay and confusion at what has become of his campaign. “By any honest analysis, the first 10 months of this year have been a political disaster. Candidates need to understand this and make changes,” said one senior Republican in Washington, who frequently speaks with the Bush campaign and asked for anonymity to speak candidly about the position the candidate now finds himself in. It is “an unbelievable position to be twisted into from ‘shock and awe’ to aw, shucks,” this person said. But others with close ties to Mr. Bush’s campaign questioned whether it needed to make more fundamental changes to his campaign’s message and leadership. “Belt tightening is one thing, but sometimes you need to change pants,” said a Republican strategist who insisted on anonymity to speak candidly. Mr. Bush’s low showing in the polls prompted the Fox News host Megyn Kelly to ask him Thursday night what it would take for him to get out of the race. “I’m not getting out,” Mr. Bush said. “I believe that we have a plan to be very competitive in the early states.” “I’m campaigning hard, I’m campaigning with heart,” he added. Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.