 Donald J. Trump said he would favor a 45 percent tariff on Chinese exports to the United States, proposing the idea during a wide-ranging meeting with members of the editorial board of The New York Times.  Mr. Trump also spoke at length about the standoff with armed protesters who last Saturday seized the headquarters at a federal wildlife refuge in Oregon, suggesting that he would have called the leader of the group to try to make a deal to end it — and would have acted against them if negotiations failed because “you cannot let people take over federal property.”  In addressing the trade imbalance with China, Mr. Trump addressed an issue that has been a focus of his speeches going back to 2011, when he considered running for president when President Obama was seeking re-election. In the editorial board meeting, which was held Tuesday, Mr. Trump said that the relationship with China needs to be restructured.  “The only power that we have with China,” Mr. Trump said, “is massive trade.”  “I would tax China on products coming in,” Mr. Trump said. “I would do a tariff, yes — and they do it to us.”  Mr. Trump added that he’s “a free trader,” but that “it’s got to be reasonably fair.”  “I would do a tax. and the tax, let me tell you what the tax should be … the tax should be 45 percent,” Mr. Trump said. China is on a path this year to surpass Canada as the biggest single trading partner of the United States, and its factories provide American consumers with lower-cost products ranging from clothing to computers, so such steep tariffs could hurt the pocketbooks of many Americans.  In early November, Mr. Trump released a little-noticed plan about changing the United States economic dynamic with China. The tariff number was not featured in the plan, but Mr. Trump called for, among other proposals, pressing to give “American workers a level playing field” to restore the manufacturing base. In addressing the Oregon standoff, Mr. Trump also spoke about the “great anger out there” that appears to be fueling the situation in Burns, Ore.  “I think what I’d do, as president, is I would make a phone call to whoever, to the group,” he said, adding later, “I’d talk to the leader. I would talk to him and I would say, ‘You gotta get out — come see me, but you gotta get out.'”  “You cannot let people take over federal property,” Mr. Trump said. “You can’t, because once you do that, you don’t have a government anymore. I think, frankly, they’ve been there too long.”  Mr. Trump said he wasn’t necessarily suggesting a large-scale military action, but that “at a certain point you have to do something and you have to be firm and you have to be strong, you have to be a government.”   An earlier version of this post misstated the day the editorial board meeting at The New York Times was held. It was Tuesday, not Monday.