 Donald J. Trump can usually offer up a solution to almost any problem with unflinching confidence. But he sounded uncharacteristically resigned on Sunday when it came to last week’s mass shooting in Oregon, saying such shootings will continue in the United States “no matter what.” In interviews on the Sunday morning talk shows, Mr. Trump rejected calls from President Obama to pass tougher gun laws, saying they would do nothing to stop an attack like the one that killed  nine people at Umpqua Community College in Oregon. “No matter what you do — guns, no guns, it doesn’t matter — you have people that are mentally ill, and they’re going to come through the cracks, and they’re going to do things that people will not even believe are possible,” Mr. Trump said in an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” His air of resignation sounded not unlike the reaction of Jeb Bush, a presidential rival Mr. Trump has often criticized, who said after the Oregon shooting that “stuff happens” in suggesting that government is not always the solution to such problems. With gun rights under the Second Amendment a core issue among Republicans, the party’s candidates — almost in unison — have roundly rejected what they see as a predictable overreaction to the shooting in the form of tougher gun laws. Mr. Trump aligned himself clearly with that position on Sunday as he shrugged aside calls for more restrictions on guns. “People say, ‘oh, we’re gonna stop it’ — it doesn’t work that way,’” he said in a separate interview on ABC’s “This Week.” Mass gun violence in America “has taken place forever, from the beginning, and it’s going to go on a million years from now,” he said. “You’re going to have problems, and even if you have a very tough system, you’re going to have people who slip through the cracks.” In the interviews, Mr. Trump returned to his customary confidence in attacking the Obama administration’s stance on Syria, the Middle East, and the refugee crisis in the region.  Mr. Trump, leading in most Republican polls, was particularly critical of the administration’s plan to take in as many as 200,000 refugees fleeing the Syrian crisis, suggesting they could be a threat to security. “We don’t know where they’re coming from, we don’t know who they are,” he said on ABC. He promised that “if I win, they’re going back.” He even voiced support for Russia’s recent bombing raids in Syria. While the White House has criticized the bombings as a misguided attempt by Russia to prop up President Bashar al-Assad of Syria rather than attack the Islamic State, Mr. Trump declared on NBC that “I like that Putin is bombing the hell out of ISIS.”
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.