 Updated, 11:12 a.m. | MANCHESTER, N.H. — Chris Christie’s kitchen-sink approach to undercutting Senator Marco Rubio took an unexpected turn on Thursday: He portrayed Mr. Rubio’s opposition to abortion as too extreme for New Hampshire Republicans. But in the process, it appears Mr. Christie misrepresented Mr. Rubio’s current views. “He’s made it very clear that — on the issue of pro-life, Marco Rubio is not for an exception for rape, incest or life of the mother,” Mr. Christie said. “Now, you know, I think that’s the kind of position that New Hampshire voters would be really concerned about.” In an interview on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” program, Mr. Christie added, “I am pro-life, but I believe that rape, incest and life of the mother, as Ronald Reagan did, should be exceptions to that rule.” Mr. Rubio is emphatically opposed to abortion in almost all cases. But contrary to Mr. Christie’s claim, he does support an exception for cases in which a mother’s life is in danger. “I think there needs to be an exception for the life of the mother,” Mr. Rubio said in Iowa last week. Mr. Rubio did not, however, mention exceptions in the case of rape or incest. “I want to see abortions in America reduced,” he said. During a Republican candidate debate in August, Mr. Rubio declared that he had never supported exceptions that would allow for abortions if conception occurred from rape or incest. But Mr. Rubio has suggested in the past that his opposition to abortion is total. “I believe a human being is entitled to life, irrespective of the circumstances in which that human being was conceived and so forth,” Mr. Rubio told Glenn Beck during a radio interview in August 2015.  During his “Morning Joe” interview, Mr. Christie went on to describe Mr. Rubio as a political lightweight with little to show for his career as a legislator and no executive experience akin to that of a governor. Mr. Rubio, he said, “quite frankly, has not proven he could ever get anything done except to get up in the morning, you know, fix his hair, smile, and give the same speech he’s given for the last six years.” Mr. Christie added, “I don’t understand how that’s a qualification for president of the United States.” Mr. Christie’s attacks come as he is trying to gain attention with several candidates competing for the No. 2 position in Tuesday’s primary in New Hampshire, where Donald J. Trump holds a comfortable lead in polls.