 For Senator Ted Cruz, the results in Westchester County seemed to offer the most stinging evidence of his repudiation by New York voters in Tuesday’s primary. In a part of the county, he appeared to finish fourth in a three-man Republican race, according to unofficial results. Ben Carson, who ended his campaign more than a month ago, stood in third place with 12 percent, compared with Mr. Cruz’s 10 percent. Those results, in the county’s part of the 16th Congressional District, prompted news articles drawing attention to Mr. Cruz’s fate — a humiliating example of how poorly he fared in New York’s primary. Or so it seemed. The Carson surge, it turns out, never actually happened. As of Wednesday morning, unofficial results from the county showed Mr. Carson with 2,058 votes in the Westchester part of the 16th District, which includes Yonkers, Mount Vernon and New Rochelle, as well as part of the Bronx. But the results have been updated, and now Mr. Carson’s vote total there stands at a paltry 162 — or about 1 percent. He got a similar sprinkling of votes in other counties, perhaps from voters who did not know, or did not care, that he has not been running since early March. Over all, he received about 9,900 votes statewide, or roughly 1 percent. Reginald A. LaFayette, one of Westchester County’s election commissioners, said that he did not know exactly what had happened with the vote totals, but that he suspected it was a matter of human error. “Someone could have called in something wrong,” he said. Mr. LaFayette said that the unofficial results had been merely provided as a convenience, “so that the people can have fun and declare themselves a winner.” Mr. Carson’s name appeared on the ballot in New York because he missed the deadline for it to be removed, according to the State Board of Elections. But Mr. Carson, who has endorsed Donald J. Trump, met the state’s deadline for requesting that his votes be voided. As a result, they will not factor into the awarding of delegates. If Mr. Carson’s votes had counted, it could have made a tiny difference in the number of delegates that Mr. Trump and Gov. John Kasich won in New York. Consider the unofficial results in the 13th Congressional District, which stretches from Upper Manhattan to parts of the Bronx. Three delegates are awarded for each district, and if one candidate wins a majority of votes, he receives all three. If no one earns a majority, the candidate with the most votes receives two delegates and the runner-up receives one as long as he wins at least 20 percent of the vote. Excluding Mr. Carson’s votes, Mr. Trump won 50.5 percent in the 13th district, which would give him three delegates if those results stand. But if Mr. Carson’s votes were included, Mr. Trump would win only 49.2 percent, giving him two delegates and Mr. Kasich, who came in second place, the other one. Mr. Kasich’s chief strategist, John Weaver, wrote on Twitter on Wednesday that “all votes” — including Mr. Carson’s — should count in New York. “We are exploring our options,” a spokesman for the campaign, Mike Schrimpf, said on Thursday. Results are not yet official, but as it stands, Mr. Trump picked up at least 89 delegates on Tuesday, according to The Associated Press, and Mr. Kasich won at least four. Mr. Cruz, like Mr. Carson, won zero.