 The Senate was poised on Wednesday to adopt its first appropriations bill for 2017 — a roughly $37.5 billion measure for energy and water programs, including $9.3 billion for nuclear weapons programs financed through the federal Energy Department.  The bill, which is expected to win passage on the Senate floor on Thursday, represents an important first step in the effort by the Senate Republican majority to complete as many of the 12 regular appropriations bills as possible this year.  The energy and water measure, however, had hit a major snag in recent days because of a dispute over an amendment put forward by Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, seeking to bar the United States from buying heavy water, which is used in producing nuclear energy and nuclear weapons, from Iran. The White House had threatened to veto the bill if the amendment was approved, and Senate Democrats said Mr. Cotton’s proposal would undermine President Obama’s agreement with Iran to limit that country’s nuclear program.  The dispute was ultimately resolved on Wednesday with Mr. Cotton’s amendment failing on a procedural vote. Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, who is managing the floor debate on the bill, had urged a no vote on Mr. Cotton’s amendment to avoid sinking the overall legislation. “I don’t believe it belongs on the bill,” Mr. Alexander said. “I think it ought to be considered first by the Foreign Relations Committee, Armed Services and Intelligence Committees because it’s filled with national security implications.”  Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky was the only Republican to join Mr. Alexander in opposing the amendment, and some Democrats expressed annoyance that they had to cast a vote that might be portrayed as favoring Iran just to keep the appropriations process from stalling. The amendment needed 60 votes to be attached to the bill, but it had only 57 in favor — 52 Republicans and five Democrats — and 42 votes against. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who is campaigning for the Democratic nomination for president, did not vote.
Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.