 Good Monday morning. Hillary Rodham Clinton has been among the lead players over the last two weeks with her strong debate performance, her day of testimony before the House Benghazi hearing, and the Jefferson-Jackson dinner on Saturday. But the focus is shifting back to the Republicans and their debate this week, with new names rising and familiar ones still struggling to gain traction. The Democratic presidential nominating contest is clearer, if not set, after the Iowa Democratic Party Jefferson-Jackson Dinner. Mrs. Clinton obliquely criticized her chief rival, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, but mostly looked past him, strongly embracing President Obama’s record and criticizing Republicans. Mr. Sanders, by contrast, took several new shots at Mrs. Clinton, though he did not refer to her by name. So did Martin O’Malley, the former governor of Maryland, who is struggling to gain attention from Democratic activists. Both men seem ready to adopt a more aggressive approach against Mrs. Clinton in the second Democratic debate next month, but without the possibility of Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. entering the race, the dinner was a much more staid affair. If the Democratic fray has stabilized for the moment, the Republican field will hit a boiling point at the next debate on Wednesday evening, hosted by CNBC, even if the format does not necessarily lend itself to the angry exchanges that have characterized the first two debates. Several people need to have a strong night. Chief among them is Jeb Bush, who, with his father and brother, will meet on Monday with donors at a retreat in Texas, hoping to assure them he is still a worthwhile investment. Mr. Bush, who sounded briefly exasperated in South Carolina over the weekend at the state of play, has been unable to completely remove Donald J. Trump from his mind. It has shown in his debate performances. But Mr. Trump also needs to show that he can do more than hurl insults about people’s energy levels, as Ben Carson, the retired neurosurgeon, overtakes him in the polls in Iowa. Mr. Trump raised questions over the weekend about Mr. Carson’s religion — he is a Seventh-Day Adventist — obliquely but unmistakably singling out the group with a bit of a raised eyebrow. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who for weeks has been seen as poised to benefit in polls or donors from Mr. Bush’s troubles, also needs a strong night to deliver on those expectations. Waiting in the wings is Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who appeals to evangelical voters, but who can also get backing from more secular voters, particularly Tea Party supporters. Any sinking by Mr. Trump or Mr. Carson may be to Mr. Cruz’s advantage, and he is another person worth watching on Wednesday night. What We’re Watching This Week — President Obama, whose administration on Saturday called to pull back its increased emphasis on testing in schools, will meet in Washington, the White House says, “with teachers and representatives of states and school districts to discuss their shared efforts to reduce the amount of time students spend on redundant or low-quality tests, while still ensuring that teachers and parents have the information they need on students’ progress.” And on Tuesday, Mr. Obama will travel to Chicago to speak at the International Association of Chiefs of Police. — As the Republicans all appear on TV together for the debate this week, the Democrats will also fill several screens. Mr. Sanders is scheduled to visit “The View,” “The Rachel Maddow Show,” “Charlie Rose,” and the “Today” show, while Mrs. Clinton will appear on the “Late Show With Stephen Colbert” on Tuesday. — And for their post-debate plans, Mr. Bush will hold a rally in New Hampshire, and Mr. Trump will be in Reno, Nev. Mr. Cruz will also be in Nevada, and Mr. Rubio will be in Iowa. Our Other Favorites From The Times What We’re Reading Elsewhere — Politico takes a look at statements from Mr. Trump in 1987, when he criticized President Ronald Reagan and questioned “whether there’s anything beneath that smile.” — The New Yorker writes that Mr. Bush’s call for a more aggressive response in Syria and Iraq “represents a return to a simplistic interventionism that seemed discredited” after the Iraq war. He relies, the magazine writes, on several former advisers to President George W. Bush, including Otto Reich, who said “I can defend the invasion of Iraq,” adding, “It caused all of the people who would’ve otherwise come and attacked us and killed Americans on our soil — it caused them to go to Iraq and die there.” —  And Hugh Hewitt, the conservative columnist and radio host who was a moderator at the Republican debate in September, questions in The Washington Examiner the widespread news coverage proclaiming Mrs. Clinton the winner in her appearance before the House Benghazi committee. He also criticized her comments the next day seeming to minimize a scandal in the Department of Veterans Affairs.