 Good Thursday morning. Hillary Rodham Clinton has been fighting battles on several fronts as Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has passed her in polling, as she begins to plan for Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to enter the race, and as she faces attacks from Republicans over her use of a private email server while she was secretary of state and over her response to the attacks on the American diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, in 2012. But on Wednesday, one opponent handed her a means of retort. After one of the longest summers in Mrs. Clinton’s political memory, her campaign suddenly — and happily — has an opportunity to stop defending itself and to point back at some of her accusers. Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House majority leader who is seeking to replace John A. Boehner as speaker, told Fox News on Tuesday that Mrs. Clinton’s falling poll numbers were linked to the work of the select committee investigating the Benghazi attacks. His comments have put Mrs. Clinton on solid, forward-looking political ground. As some Republicans privately questioned why Mr. McCarthy made the comments and wondered what it revealed about his political future, Mrs. Clinton and her allies seized on the remarks, citing them as proof that the committee, which is conducting the latest in a string of investigations into the Benghazi attacks, is simply a partisan inquest. And Mrs. Clinton linked her dismay over the comments to the testimony before another House committee, of Cecile Richards, the president of Planned Parenthood. “The Republicans bullied and demeaned Cecile Richards personally in her appearance for more than five hours before their committee,” Mrs. Clinton told the Rev. Al Sharpton in a taped interview on MSNBC that will air on Sunday. “They dismissed the important work that Planned Parenthood has done for many years helping to treat millions of American women.” Mrs. Clinton is set to testify before the Benghazi committee on Oct. 22. The appearance could help Mrs. Clinton begin to put the email controversy behind her — and her allies expect Republicans will overreach in their questions. — Maggie Haberman What We’re Watching – Mrs. Clinton will participate in a forum in Boston “to engage,” her campaign says, “in a conversation with the community on substance abuse and its tragic effects on individuals and families.” At a similar event in New Hampshire on Wednesday, Jeb Bush alluded to his “personal experience” grappling with addiction in his family. –  Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who continues to rise in polls and to draw the attention of Donald J. Trump, will begin a short trip to Iowa, holding a town-hall-style event in Cedar Falls. –  The third-quarter fund-raising deadline ended at midnight on Wednesday, which means the candidates must decide when and how to release their fund-raising totals for the last three months. Those with good news, such as Mrs. Clinton, who raised $28 million, and Mr. Sanders, who reported a huge small-donor haul even before the books closed on Wednesday, are likely to put out news releases on Thursday. Those with bad news will look to bury it, either later in the week or amid another major news event.  — Nicholas Confessore Agreement Is Reached on Criminal Justice System Overhaul The negotiations seemed to be on the brink of collapse after early promise, but a bipartisan group of senators has pulled together a far-reaching overhaul of the federal criminal sentencing system and will make it public on Thursday morning. Prominent members of the Judiciary Committee intend to lay out a proposal that would eliminate some mandatory minimum sentences for drug and nonviolent offenders and give prisoners more tools for re-entering society and lowering the risk of a repeat crime. Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle had worried that Senator Charles E. Grassley, the conservative Iowa Republican and chairman of the Judiciary Committee who is up for re-election next year, would not pull the legislative trigger given his law-and-order history and criticism of earlier proposals to reduce mandatory minimums. But Mr. Grassley is on board, as is Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the senior Democrat on the committee. The panel is scheduled to take up the measure this month, and the bill seems likely to be cleared for the Senate floor, where Senator Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican and majority leader, will have to decide whether it is a priority given the various legislative crises brewing. With the House in the middle of a leadership shake-up, it is a good bet that criminal justice overhaul will be kicked into 2016. But in a big election year, politicians in both parties might be looking for a bipartisan success story, and sentencing changes could be the result. — Carl Hulse Our Favorites From The Times — Carly Fiorina is deftly maneuvering the gray areas and the loopholes in the federal rules regarding “super PACs,” maximizing the allowed cooperation by keeping plans out in the open. — The next Republican presidential debate will have stricter polling criteria for candidates to make the main debate stage, potentially winnowing the field, CNBC said. — Congress passed a temporary spending bill, averting a shutdown and keeping the government running through Dec. 11, but doing nothing to avoid bigger battles ahead. Poll Gives Voters Chance to Speak Their Minds on Trump and Fiorina Polling isn’t all about who’s up and who’s down. The latest Suffolk University/USA Today poll, which shows Mr. Trump maintaining his lead, also gave voters a chance to say how they really feel about a couple of the candidates. Mr. Trump and Mrs. Fiorina got the word association treatment, and the reviews were not entirely flattering. Mr. Trump was most commonly associated with words such as idiot, jerk, stupid and dumb, along with other adjectives, including mouthy. On the bright side, he did receive some accolades for being competent, brave and boisterous. Mrs. Fiorina, a former Hewlett-Packard chief executive, received more favorable responses from most of those queried, with people viewing her as smart, intelligent and knowledgeable. However, the second most-common feeling about her was that she is dishonest, a liar or untrustworthy. David Paleologos, who directs the Suffolk poll, said the responses had more negative views of the Republican candidates because the query was open to opinion from Democrats. Interestingly, he said, many people who saw Mr. Trump as being brash or having a big mouth also said they were supporting him. What some might view as a drawback is seen by others as a winning credential. — Alan Rappeport Bulletins: Kennedy’s Scotch, Pacific Trade and Trump’s Policy — In oral history interviews released on Wednesday, Senator Edward M. Kennedy talked about how Scotch helped him get subcommittee assignments in 1963. — Talks on the Pacific trade deal, which would be a legacy achievement for President Obama, resume under fire from several presidential hopefuls and as trade ministers remain deadlocked over pharmaceutical drug protections, auto exports and other matters. — Mr. Trump had a wonkier-than-usual campaign event in New Hampshire, with mentions of corporate inversion, marriage penalties and the estate tax, but he still took jabs at his rivals. What We’re Reading Elsewhere —  The Washington Post writes that Mr. Trump’s success has created a Republican contest that “devolves into a divide-and-conquer affair.” —  Mrs. Clinton, The Daily News reported, has vowed to support the reauthorization of a program providing aid to ill responders at the sites of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, and harshly criticized Congress for not having already done so. —  In an interview with CNN, Mr. Bush joined Mr. Trump in criticizing Mr. Rubio, calling his former colleague in Florida, a “follower,” the real estate mogul an “entertainer” and himself a “proven leader.”