 Here’s a quick look at how The New York Times unraveled the story of Donald Trump Jr.’s decision to meet with a Russian lawyer who supposedly had compromising information on Hillary Clinton. The information, he was told, was being offered to his father’s campaign as “part of Russia and its government’s support for Mr. Trump.” The Times disclosed that Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law, met during the transition with the Russian ambassador to the United States and with the head of a Russian bank, a man who once attended a Russian spy academy. (The bank itself is on a U.S. sanction list.) This was the first reported private meeting between a Trump relative and Russian officials, making Mr. Kushner the closest person to the president to be called upon by the F.B.I and several congressional committees investigating the scope of the Russian intervention.  The Times disclosed that Mr. Kushner, who is a top White House aide, had failed to report contacts with foreign officials, including his meetings with the Russian ambassador to the United States and the Russian banker, on confidential forms required to obtain a security clearance. Willfully failing to report all encounters with foreign government officials and their representatives can result in losing top secret clearances and even jail time. Mr. Kushner, responding to The Times, said he had immediately notified the F.B.I. that he would be amending his list of foreign contacts. When he did so, he reported the meeting with Natalia Veselnitskaya, the Russian lawyer at the heart of the latest controversy. The Times reported that Donald Trump Jr. had set up a meeting during the campaign with a Kremlin-connected lawyer and that he had asked Mr. Kushner, along with the campaign chief Paul Manafort, to attend. That disclosure was based in part on a newly filed security clearance form on which Mr. Kushner listed the Russian lawyer’s name. Mr. Trump told The Times that the meeting had been primarily about a ban on adoptions by American families of Russian children. He did not respond to questions about why he thought it necessary for both Mr. Kushner and Mr. Manafort to attend. The Times reported that Donald Trump Jr. had agreed to the June 9, 2016, meeting with the Kremlin-connected lawyer, Ms.Veselnitskaya, after being promised information damaging to his father’s Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton. Mr. Trump’s explanation for the meeting then morphed: He acknowledged that the lawyer had offered him information on Mrs. Clinton but said that her statements had “made no sense” and that the information was not “meaningful.” The back story to the June 9 meeting involves an eclectic cast of characters the Trump family knew from its business dealings in Moscow, including Rob Goldstone, a former British tabloid journalist and president of a company called Oui 2 Entertainment who has worked with the Miss Universe pageant.  The Times reported that Donald Trump Jr. and an intermediary had exchanged emails setting up the June 9 meeting — and that, according to three people familiar with the matter, the email exchange showed he was told beforehand that the material was part of a Russian government effort to aid his father’s candidacy. The email to Donald Trump Jr. was sent by Mr. Goldstone, the entertainment executive who helped broker the meeting. Mr. Goldstone represents one of Russia’s biggest pop music stars, Emin Agalarov, the son of Aras Agalarov, a real estate tycoon sometimes called the “Donald Trump of Russia.” Donald J. Trump appeared in a music video for Emin, delivering his trademark line: “You’re fired!”  The Times obtained and published the contents of those emails, which suggested that Donald Trump Jr. had no qualms about receiving information damaging to Mrs. Clinton that appeared to be coming from high up in the Kremlin, relayed by a “Russian government attorney.” “I love it,” he replied via email on June 3 to Mr. Goldstone, who told Mr.Trump that he was writing on behalf of a mutual friend, the Russian pop star Emin Agalarov. Told that The Times was going to publish the contents of his emails, he went into damage-control mode, hastily posting photos of the email chain, along with a statement, minutes before The Times published its story.