 NORTH CHARLESTON, S.C. — On the eve of Martin Luther King’s Birthday, three black supporters of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont sought to present his stances on race and the economy as the heir to the legacy of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Cornel West, a prominent scholar; Killer Mike, an Atlanta rapper; and the former Ohio state senator, Nina Turner, praised Mr. Sanders during a 50-minute conversation with him on Sunday that was streamed live and filmed at a Marriott Hotel here. They spoke about King’s last days organizing with union workers and planning a venture he called the Poor People’s Campaign. The four went on to say that Mr. Sanders’s proposed ideas to protect the working class, break up large commercial banks, raise the minimum wage to $15 and reform police departments illustrated an extension of King’s vision. Mr. West said that Mr. Sanders’s bid for the presidency illustrated a focus on the well being of working class people that had not been seen since the Rev. Jesse Jackson ran for president in the 1980s. He added that Mr. Sanders comes from what he called the “vanilla side of the country,” is sensitive to what he called “chocolate folk,” and is willing to confront Wall Street in a way other longtime politicians will not. “It is a very unique moment and there is a real sense in which it could very well be America’s last chance for the legacy of King to be addressed in a serious way,” Mr. West said of Mr. Sanders’s possible ascendancy to the White House. “And it is a fascinating thing: It could be a brother from Brooklyn” who is leading the effort. On Sunday morning, Mr. West, Ms. Turner and Mr. Sanders  attended a church service in Charleston at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, where nine people were fatally shot in June. During the service, the Rev. Dr. Norvel Goff Sr. called for more focus on the poor. Mr. West said Mr. Goff’s words spoke directly to the purpose of Mr. Sanders’s campaign. “He is not just a figure in a museum. He is part of a very rich tradition, a tradition of a people who have been terrorized, traumatized, and stigmatized for 400 years but still keep dishing out unbelievable courage and vision and most importantly, love and justice,” Mr. West said of King. “We were sitting at the church today in Mother Emmanuel Church and they were reading the words of Martin Luther King Jr. and it just made you shake and quiver. And I said to myself, this is what the Sanders campaign is about.” Mr. Sanders spoke briefly at Emanuel A.M.E. Church, where he sat in the first row, nodding and clapping. “I think that while it is enormously important that we honor the life and work of Dr. King, it is even more important that we fulfill his vision and keep that struggle and that fight going until we have a nation in which we have broken down racism and a nation in which all of our people — not just a few, but all of our people — can enjoy dignity and a decent standard of living,” Mr. Sanders said to the packed church. “And that’s what I would hope our mission together is about.” On Sunday afternoon, Mr. Sanders also reminded those watching online that King was assassinated after he had started to talk about the Vietnam War and was in Tennessee to help workers at the time of his death. He also said that people too often forget that King was working on a march for poor people’s rights that included organizing blacks, whites, Latinos and Native Americans. “He made this point all the time: Of course you want to break down segregation,” Mr. Sanders said of King. “You have the right to go to any school you want to go to. But then he asked, what does that matter if you don’t have the money to go to that school? And that takes him then to the whole issue of income and wealth inequality. He says, ‘How can it be that in a country of so much wealth, that so many people have so little.’”