 MANCHESTER, N.H. – Gov. John Kasich of Ohio and Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey are locked in an increasingly bitter fight in New Hampshire. Both men have anchored their presidential campaigns in the state, holding dozens of town hall meetings and spending most of their money in an effort to seize momentum here. The latest round of campaign finance filings revealed just how high the stakes are in New Hampshire for Mr. Kasich and Mr. Christie. Mr. Christie’s campaign reported that it had only $1.1 million in the bank at the start of January. Mr. Kasich fared a bit better, with $2.5 million in reserve. Without a standout performance in the New Hampshire primary on Feb. 9, it may rapidly become difficult for either governor to pay for the fundamentals of campaigning in the next round of elections in South Carolina and Nevada, and beyond. Neither Mr. Kasich nor Mr. Christie is expected to fare well Monday night in the Iowa caucuses, a contest they have both effectively bypassed as Donald J. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas have dominated the campaign in that first voting state. In New Hampshire, Mr. Trump has held a wide lead over a pack of opponents in every public poll, with no clear second-place favorite. Mr. Christie said in appearances on ABC’s “Good Morning America” and MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” on Monday that his goal was to emerge from the first two states as the leading candidate among the governors in the race – Mr. Kasich and Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida. “It’s who we beat, who’s behind us, that matters the most,” Mr. Christie said on MSNBC. Two other candidates embraced by the political establishment have invested significant resources in New Hampshire: Mr. Bush and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida. But they have enough financial power arrayed behind them to persist in the race even after an unimpressive New Hampshire finish. While both Mr. Bush and Mr. Rubio have looked to New Hampshire as an opportunity to gain steam in the campaign, they have both also laid the groundwork for a longer fight, spending time and money in South Carolina, Nevada and other states, where Mr. Kasich and Mr. Christie have not focused their attention. Mr. Rubio finished last month with $10.4 million in the bank, and a “super PAC” supporting his campaign had about $14 million more. Mr. Bush had $7.6 million on hand and his super PAC had almost $59 million stockpiled. Mr. Christie and Mr. Kasich also have super PACs supporting them, and may be relying on a strong New Hampshire finish to draw new, large donations into these outside groups. The pro-Christie group, America Leads, had $3.3 million at the start of January. The“super PAC supporting Mr. Kasich, New Day for America, had $2 million in the bank, though a strategist for the group said it had taken in $4 million more in the last month. The two super PACs have exchanged attacks in recent weeks, as the competition between Mr. Kasich and Mr. Christie has intensified. Over the weekend, the pro-Christie group began running a television commercial criticizing Mr. Kasich for having worked at Lehman Brothers, the failed investment bank. 