 MARSHALLTOWN, Iowa — It may not be a good idea to call voters whose support you seek “stupid,” but none of the iron rules of presidential politics have applied so far to Donald J. Trump.  Iowans on Friday were generally dismissive of Mr. Trump’s suggestion that voters must lack intelligence if they believed Ben Carson’s account of a near-stabbing when he was a teenager. But Republican strategists in the state were skeptical that Mr. Trump’s latest over-the-top outburst would seriously erode his support, even if it was unlikely to win any new fans. “Mr. Trump in my opinion has gone as high in Iowa as he can get,’’ said Peter Rogers, chairman of the Republican Party of Marshall County. “His remark is nothing positive for him.  It has no tactical or strategic benefit.’’ At a rally in Fort Dodge, Iowa, on Thursday evening, Mr. Trump compared Mr. Carson to a child molester; acted out with incredulity Mr. Carson’s story of how he almost stabbed another boy when he was 14; and asked, “How stupid are the people of Iowa?’’ to believe Mr. Carson. Strategists doubted the rant would immediately diminish Mr. Trump’s support given how many earlier comments that seemed inappropriate or unseemly brought him new followers — thanks to saturation exposure and a feeling by many voters that the real estate mogul was just telling it like it is. “We’ve been through a number of predictions that ‘This time he’s gone too far,’ and it wasn’t too far in this unusual election cycle,’’ said Eric Woolson, who was a senior adviser in Iowa to Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin before he quit the race.   Mr. Woolson suggested the rant was a “reverse of the Howard Dean scream,’’ the outburst that came after Mr. Dean, the former governor of Vermont, lost the 2004 Democratic caucuses in Iowa, all but ending his campaign. “People in the room didn’t think it was so damaging,’’ Mr. Woolson recalled of Mr. Dean’s well-known scream that went into heavy rotation on cable and late-night TV. “And people viewing on TV immediately thought he was over the top and out of control.’’  Jeff Patch, a Republican consultant in Iowa, recalled the series of Trump comments that seemed fatal, including calling Mexicans “rapists’’ and saying Senator John McCain was “not a hero” because he had been captured during the Vietnam War. After that episode in July, The Des Moines Register called on Mr. Trump to quit the race.  In Sioux City last month he mock-insulted his audience by saying, “If I lose Iowa I will never speak to you people again.’’ “Political observers of all stripes have long predicted the demise of Trump for saying things that would drum traditional candidates out of the race,’’ Mr. Patch said. “His remarks about Carson — particularly comparing him to a child molester — seem beyond the pale to many Iowa Republicans, but the only thing that will force Trump out of the race is a realization that he’s not going to win,’’ Mr. Patch said. “If he’s heading into the Iowa caucus polling in second or third place, will he risk the Trump brand of ‘winning’ or will he find a way to save face?’’ Dave Thompson, a hardware store owner in Marshalltown who said he votes Republican but has not yet settled on a candidate, said Mr. Trump did not have much of a chance to earn his vote.  “If all I have to offer is to tear down other people, I have nothing to offer,’’ he said, alluding to Mr. Trump.