 DAVIE, Fla. — A day after the deadly shootings in Oregon, Hillary Rodham Clinton used a campaign appearance here on Friday to begin an impassioned attack on the National Rifle Association and Republican members of Congress who she said did the group’s bidding.
​​
“It is sickening to me,” she told a crowd of supporters packed into a gymnasium on the campus of Broward College here. “People should not have to be afraid to go to college like this one, or to a movie theater, or to Bible study. What is wrong with us that we can’t stand up to the N.R.A.?” Mrs. Clinton’s remarks followed  a similarly forceful address Thursday by President Obama,  who lamented that mass shootings like the one earlier that day at a community college in Roseburg, Ore. — and the responses to them — have become routine. “We don’t just need to pray for these people,” Mrs. Clinton said. “We need to act. It’s infuriating: Every time there’s another massacre, the Republicans and the N.R.A. say, ‘It’s not the time to talk about guns.’ Yes, it is. It is time to act, but Republicans continue to refuse to do anything to protect our communities. They put the N.R.A. ahead of American families.
​
“​We need to make every politician who sides with them to look into the eyes of parents whose children have been murdered and explain why they listen to the gun lobbyists instead.” Mrs. Clinton was in South Florida in part to begin a national effort to woo Latino voters, a potentially crucial component of her presidential prospects, particularly in this state. Mrs. Clinton’s appearance here was delayed by more than an hour while she greeted supporters at a fund-raising event in North Palm Beach, one of three such events she was scheduled to attend during her brief visit to the state.  She said that she did not expect it to be easy to take on the entrenched interests of the gun lobby.
​
 “I’m well aware that this is a political mountain to climb, but you don’t get anywhere in this country if you don’t start by calling it out.” She said the National Rifle Association cou​nt​ed on ​”​having an intense, dedicated group that really scares politicians by saying, ‘We will vote against you.'” In a slightly hoarse voice, Mrs. Clinton said that with so many weapons in the hands of “too many people who should never have gotten guns in the first place,” it was almost inevitable that some people were acting out their fury “or whatever their problems are” by killing other people. “I will, as president, never relent on this,” she said to applause, “because we need a national movement.”