 Lincoln Chafee abandoned his bid for the Democratic presidential nomination on Friday, likely spelling the end to a 30-year career in politics that started on a local town council, took him to the United States Senate and ultimately to the governor’s mansion in Rhode Island. A former Republican and independent, Mr. Chafee became a Democrat later in life and this year opted to take his message of “prosperity through peace” to the national stage. The flirtation: Mr. Chafee signaled his presidential intentions in April, announcing that he was considering a run and immediately criticizing foreign donations accepted by the Clinton Foundation and raising questions about Hillary Rodham Clinton’s support for the Iraq war. “I would argue that the next president of the United States should not have voted for that war,” Mr. Chafee said. The announcement: Before an audience of mostly students in an auditorium at George Mason University, Mr. Chafee made it official in early June that he was running for president. He argued that his experience at all levels of government and his ability to work with people from different parties made him uniquely qualified for the job. However, his quirky call for a change to the metric system overshadowed his announcement. “I happened to live in Canada as they completed the process,” Mr. Chafee said that day. “Believe me, it’s easy. It doesn’t take long before 34 degrees is hot.” The trail: Mr. Chafee made frequent visits to New Hampshire, which is near his home in Rhode Island, and occasional visits to Iowa, but with money only trickling in he lacked the resources to mount a serious effort and often drove himself to campaign events. At a breakfast in July, he acknowledged the challenge was daunting: “The reality is that Secretary Clinton has a huge head start, has all the endorsements and all the money, and the rest of us are scrambling.” The debate: In perhaps his weakest moment, Mr. Chafee stumbled during the first Democratic debate to explain his vote as a senator to repeal the Glass-Steagall Act. He asked the moderator not to be so rough on him, and his performance was mocked by “Saturday Night Live,” which portrayed the former governor as a bumbling space cadet. “Good night America, bye forever,” his doppelgänger, Kyle Mooney, said with a wave. The end: Mr. Chafee, 62, used a speech at the Annual National Issues Conference of the Women’s Leadership Forum in Washington as his moment to exit the race. In a final display of his eccentricity, he said women’s leadership was exemplified by “Lysistrata,” a Greek comedy written by Aristophanes. “In that play, a group of women, fed up with the war mongering of their husbands, agree to withhold their favors until peace returns,” Mr. Chafee said. “And it worked!”