 Television stations across Ohio are refusing to run advertisements from the Trump campaign that are critical of Gov. John Kasich because of a technical election law violation in the ad. New Day for America, the “super PAC” supporting Mr. Kasich, sent complaints to stations about the ad, saying that it was “falsely attacking Ohio Gov. John Kasich,” and that it did not comply with federal regulations for  political advertising. “No disclaimer appears at the end of the advertisement paid for by Donald Trump,” Matt Carle, executive director of New Day for America, wrote in the complaint. “Consequently, this advertisement is in violation of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, and it must be removed from the air.” The move to block  the ad was announced by New Day for America, and confirmed with media buyers. WHIO and WDTN, among others, are not going to air the ad in its current form. The ad was released late on Friday, and began running in Ohio on Saturday morning.  The Federal Election Commission says that political ads  must include a “clearly readable” written statement  that appears at their end  “for a period of at least four seconds” with a “reasonable degree of color contrast” between the background and the disclaimer statement. Mr. Trump has varied where he has placed his disclaimer in his advertising, sometimes putting it at the beginning and  other times at the end. The campaign has not  had a problem with any of its ads until now. The ad being challenged now accused Mr. Kasich of helping “Wall Street predator Lehman Brothers destroy the world economy.” It also called him an “absentee governor,” a critique Mr. Trump has been using on the campaign trail as well. “Campaigns always reflect the candidate, and it’s clearly amateur hour over at Trump HQ,” Matt David, New Day For America’s chief strategist, said in a statement. “How can a campaign who can’t figure out how to run a television ad possibly beat the Clinton political machine? It’s a joke.” The Kasich ad and two airing in Florida about Senator Marco Rubio have been a departure from the tone and visuals of previous spots. The Trump campaign has never identified who has made his ads, although his Federal Election Commission filings show payments to the firm owned by Rick Reed, a veteran Republican ad maker.  The new spots, according to two people briefed on the campaign’s plans who asked for anonymity to speak about private discussions, were made by a Florida-based firm.  Mr. Trump’s spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, declined to respond to questions about who made the recent ads and the status of the ad in question in Ohio. 