 Senator Bernie Sanders announced on Saturday that he is supporting legislation to amend a 2005 law on gunmakers’ liability that he voted for and that Hillary Clinton has been using to attack him as weak on gun regulations. Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut and Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, both Democrats, have proposed to rescind portions of the 2005 law granting broad immunity from lawsuits to gun manufacturers and dealers. Mr. Sanders has defended his support of the law by saying he was trying to shield small gun dealers who followed the law from expensive litigation. He also proposed an amendment to Mr. Blumenthal’s and Mr. Schiff’s legislation that would require the Commerce Department to monitor and report on the law’s impact in rural areas and on the availability of hunting supplies, including firearms, sold by non-negligent local gun stores. “As I have said for many months now, we need to look at the underlying law and tighten it up,” Mr. Sanders said in a statement. “I do want to make sure that this legislation does not negatively impact small gun stores in rural America that serve the hunting community.” Although the bill has little chance of passing a Republican-controlled Congress, supporting it gives Mr. Sanders a fresh talking point. Mr. Sanders has said that in some past votes on firearms regulations, he had to take into account the many gun-owning hunters in Vermont. But Mrs. Clinton, facing pressure from Mr. Sanders in Iowa and New Hampshire, has been using that record to call Mr. Sanders weak on gun control. At news conferences and speaking events, Mrs. Clinton has reminded voters that the 2005 law was also supported by the National Rifle Association. In an ad released this week, Mrs. Clinton laid out her support for gun legislation and for President Obama’s recent executive actions to tighten gun laws. The ad drew an unspoken but obvious contrast with Mr. Sanders, who Mrs. Clinton has asserted has not been tough enough on the industry. Mr. Sanders, too, has declared his support for Mr. Obama’s executive actions. He has also noted that he voted for a number of gun control measures, including a ban on assault weapons, improved background checks and eliminating the so-called gun-show loophole, which allows the sale of firearms without background checks.