 If the presidential race hinged on congressional endorsements alone, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida and Hillary Clinton, a former New York senator, would take their parties’ nominations today. But with nine months until Election Day and quite a few candidates still standing, most lawmakers have yet to declare a favorite. Mrs. Clinton has collected several endorsements from Senate Democrats, including from most of the chamber’s women; she appeared on the campaign trail last week with Senators Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire, Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Debbie Stabenow of Michigan. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York backed her in 2013, entreating “Run, Hillary, run!” more than a year before she announced her candidacy. Mrs. Clinton got another boost on Thursday as the political action committee of the Congressional Black Caucus gave her its endorsement, with many of the caucus’s House members showing up at the announcement to add their support. But many lawmakers are hesitating to endorse, partly out of respect for their current colleague, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who has picked up just two congressional endorsements: from Representatives Raúl M. Grijalva of Arizona and Keith Ellison of Minnesota. Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat who has earned a devoted following among liberal voters, has not backed a candidate; she is the only female Senate Democrat not to endorse Mrs. Clinton. And despite his apparent preference for Mrs. Clinton, Senator Harry Reid, the Democratic leader, has resisted endorsing, hoping a more robust primary contest in his home state of Nevada on Feb. 20 will encourage voter registration. And in an interview with CNN on Thursday, Mr. Reid raised the possibility of a contested convention, calling the idea “kind of fun.” On the Republican side, where most seem content to just stay out of it, Mr. Rubio has notched some notable endorsements. Last week, he got a powerful nod from Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina as Republicans there prepare to go to the polls on Feb. 20, and he has a smattering of endorsements from House Republicans. Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, who dropped out of the race shortly after the Iowa caucuses, does not plan to endorse a candidate. But Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who ended his bid in December, has been a vocal — and colorful — supporter of Jeb Bush.