 The “super PAC” that was soliciting contributions to support Donald J. Trump’s presidential run is closing down after questions arose about whether the strategist who is running it had direct ties to the campaign.  The “super PAC”, Make America Great Again, popped up in July, soon after Mr. Trump declared his candidacy. But the Colorado-based strategist who is running it, Mike Ciletti, told Politico that he plans to shut it down.  Mr. Ciletti couldn’t be reached for comment. But he told the website, in news that broke as Hillary Rodham Clinton’s testimony before the House  committee investigating the Benghazi attacks was still dominating cable television, that he was doing so because Mr. Trump “has said he doesn’t have a super PAC.”   Mr. Trump has made denouncing super PACs, which are legally barred from coordinating with campaigns, a part of his stump speech. He routinely says that he is funding his own race, and that while people are offering him “millions,” he doesn’t want to accept it.  But the group, which was able to raise unlimited contributions, was eagerly soliciting donations from people, including the parents of Mr. Trump’s son-in-law. Mr. Ciletti sent an email, first reported by the Washington Post, to prospective donors at the beginning of September, in which he said that he had gotten people’s emails from those that “Rhona had on file.” Rhona appeared to refer to Rhona Graff, who has for years been Mr. Trump’s gatekeeper.  “Without the help of Make America Great Again, Mr. Trump will be left alone to fend off Jeb and the other candidates,” Mr. Ciletti wrote in the email. “While I don’t doubt Mr. Trump’s ability to fight back, I don’t believe he should have to stand alone. If all the other candidates get to count on their friends to help out, why can’t Mr. Trump?”  Aides to Mr. Trump did not respond to an email seeking comment about how Mr. Ciletti would have obtained contact information from Ms. Graff.  The “super PAC” raised questions about how direct Mr. Trump’s aides were being about their efforts to bolster outside. And they cut against the image that Mr. Trump has created of himself as a non-politician.  Some Republican strategists suggested Mr. Trump, who has proved Teflon so far, would not suffer many consequences. “Having a super PAC or engaging in any other particular political hypocrisy does not hurt Trump,” Alex Castellanos, who advised Mitt Romney in 2008, said in an email. “GOP voters want him to do whatever it takes to blow up the establishment so his ‘moral flexibility,’ at this point, is an asset.” Mr. Trump’s campaign advisers have insisted he did not condone the super PAC. But early in the summer, there were loose discussions within Mr. Trump’s circle about having his corporate adviser Michael Cohen depart the campaign to help steer the outside group. Yet those conversations were abandoned as the criticisms of such groups became central to Mr. Trump’s message, said  a person briefed on the talks who is not authorized to speak publicly.  But there were still ties to the campaign. The Washington Post also reported that Mr. Ciletti was seen in the Trump offices within weeks of the campaign starting. Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, told the paper he did not know Mr. Ciletti, but later acknowledged that he did.  Two firms associated with Mr. Ciletti received business from the campaign; one of them, WizBang Solutions, a direct mail service, is among the preferred vendors of the conservative grassroots organization Americans for Prosperity.  Mr. Lewandowski worked for the organization until he went to work for Mr. Trump earlier this year – he had overseen voter registration efforts for the group in 2014, when a controversial piece of direct mail containing inaccurate voter registration information was sent by the group to tens of thousands of North Carolina residents, leading to allegations of voter suppression, charges the group denied. An A.F.P. spokesman could not immediately say whether WizBang or another vendor produced that piece of mail, although he said the group had a rigorous vetting process for the nearly 10 firms it has on its list of preferred vendors.  After Mr. Ciletti announced that the super PAC would shutter, Mr. Trump’s campaign sent out a press release saying that his lawyer on Wednesday had sent letters to the nine outside groups created to support him saying that they were unauthorized and asking them to refund the money raised.  According to the release, the letters said,   “We are providing this written notice that your organization is not authorized to use Mr. Trump’s name and likeness in connection with its
fundraising activities, and we are formally disavowing such activities. Thus, given the invocation of Donald J. Trump in connection with your activities, we ask that you refund all funds received by you in connection with any fundraising undertaken to specifically support and/or done in the name of Donald J. Trump.”  The letter added, “The campaign has never received money from your PAC, nor does the campaign want any money, services or goods from your committee.”
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.