 Updated, 10:52 a.m. | Senator Lindsey Graham endorsed Jeb Bush for president on Friday in Charleston, S.C. Mr. Graham, the South Carolina Republican who ended his own presidential bid after failing to gain traction, ran on a platform of national security, and has said he thinks Mr. Bush, the former Florida governor, is strong on the issue. Mr. Graham thinks Mr. Bush is best prepared to be commander in chief on Day 1 — a case Mr. Bush has made repeatedly himself — and believes he best understands the threats the nation faces. Mr. Graham also believes Mr. Bush is most likely to beat Hillary Clinton, who leads the Democratic field in many national polls, in a general election. Mr. Bush made a point of wooing Mr. Graham, texting him weekly when the two were rivals for the Republican nomination. On the morning Mr. Graham dropped out, Mr. Bush texted him immediately and later made a hard pitch over the phone — that he was best equipped on Mr. Graham’s top issue of national security. Mr. Graham’s endorsement comes after Mr. Bush picked up the support of dozens of Graham loyalists throughout the state. Though Mr. Graham never saw his presidential campaign take off, his support — and vast organization in his home state — helps Mr. Bush in South Carolina, which heads to the polls on Feb. 20. In an interview in Columbia, S.C., recently, Mr. Graham named several Republican hopefuls — Mr. Bush, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida. He called all of them strong on the issue of fighting terrorism at home and abroad. “Well, Marco’s been great on national security,” he said. “Jeb’s plan is basically my plan.” Though Mr. Graham likes Mr. Rubio’s national defense platform, he has been frustrated with the Florida senator, after the two men worked together in the Senate as part of the so-called Gang of Eight to pass a broad immigration bill, which included a path to citizenship for the 11 million undocumented immigrants in the country. After first helping draft legislation, Mr. Rubio has since backed away from the bill amid backlash from his party’s conservative base, citing concerns about first needing to secure the nation’s southern border. Asked by reporters at an event in Derry, N.H., on Friday about Mr. Graham’s backing of Mr. Bush, Mr. Rubio said, “I like Lindsey very much,” but dismissed the impact of his support. “Obviously if this campaign was about who had the most endorsements, Jeb would have had this wrapped up months ago,” Mr. Rubio. Mr. Graham also said he would make an endorsement at “a time when it would matter.” His support, which he officially announced at a press conference with Mr. Bush in North Charleston, comes as the former governor of Florida is struggling to break out of single digits in polls. Mr. Bush needs a top finish in the New Hampshire primary on Feb. 9 to revive his stalled campaign. But if he can beat his more establishment rivals, like Mr. Rubio and Mr. Christie, in New Hampshire, his aides hope he can use that momentum for a strong finish in South Carolina, which is open to his national security message. The campaign is also likely to deploy Mr. Bush’s older brother, former President George W. Bush, who remains popular with the Republican base, to help in South Carolina.