 SEATTLE — Hillary Clinton used a victory rally here on Tuesday night to sharply challenge the leading Republican candidate, Donald J. Trump, calling him a “demagogue” who was “inciting bigotry and violence” and whose “bullying behavior” called for a timeout. After only briefly mentioning her victory in the Arizona primary on Tuesday, Mrs. Clinton quickly turned her focus to the terrorist attacks in Brussels. She criticized Mr. Trump’s endorsement of torture and his proposal to distance the United States from NATO.  “We live in a complex and dangerous world, and we need a commander in chief who can provide leadership that is strong, smart and above all, steady,” she told the crowd at Rainier Beach High School. “The last thing we need, my friends, are leaders who incite more fear,” Mrs. Clinton said. “In the face of terror, America doesn’t panic. We don’t build walls or turn our backs on our allies.” But Mrs. Clinton’s critique of the candidate expanded beyond foreign policy to the core of Mr. Trump’s campaign slogan, “Make America Great Again,” and his handling of the violence that has erupted at his rallies. “There’s a lot of pessimistic talk. There’s a lot of negativity. It’s as if we aren’t Americans,” Mrs. Clinton said. “Nobody can beat us. They can’t beat us anywhere.” She addressed the anger that has driven many voters to Mr. Trump’s message, pointing to the economic causes of income inequality and wage stagnation. She vowed to overhaul the corporate tax code, expand apprenticeship programs and expand income contingency repayment plans to help people pay off student debt. But the policy talk then switched back to politics. “When we see people running for president of the United States who are literally inciting bigotry and violence,” Mrs. Clinton said, “we’ve got to reclaim the promise of America for all our people, every single one of us.” Mr. Trump, who won Arizona’s Republican primary on Tuesday, did not immediately respond to the fiery speech, but he criticized Mrs. Clinton earlier in the day. “Incompetent Hillary, despite the horrible attack in Brussels today, wants borders to be weak and open-and let the Muslims flow in,” he wrote on Twitter. “No Way!”