 PORTSMOUTH, N.H. — Donald J. Trump, whose outsized confidence has been a hallmark of his presidential campaign,  implored a crowd of several hundred supporters here on Thursday night not to be complacent in the run-up to Tuesday’s primary.   “Don’t think we are going to win,” Mr. Trump, who came in second to Senator Ted Cruz of Texas in the Iowa Caucuses this week,  warned the crowd.  “No matter where you are, no matter how you feel, I don’t give a damn, you got to get out, you got to get out of bed and vote,” Mr. Trump said. It was a seeming change of tack for Mr. Trump, who has rarely missed a chance to tell a crowd how well he was doing, or how poorly his opponents were faring, in the polls. But, for 45 minutes at a rally at Great Bay Community College, he did not mention his poll numbers. He did not attack or mention Mr. Cruz or Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who came in third in Iowa. And his campaign added three smaller, more retail politics events to his Thursday and Friday schedules in addition to the large rallies he typically favors (“I’ve done five of these today,” he hoarsely told the crowd).  While Mr. Trump’s political tactics may have changed, his message remained its consistent mix of terrorism, illegal immigration, and the establishment. “We invented the Internet, and ISIS is using it to radicalize our kids and our kids are leaving,” he warned the crowd. His promise to have Mexico finance a wall on the United States border is so well-known that the crowd loudly answered “Mexico!” when he asked them who was going to pay for it.  The political “hacks” are “terrible human beings,” he said. So horrible that a “beautiful” woman near the stage would “never ever have dinner with some of these people. Although they are very rich. You might have dinner with them,” he said to laughter.  Mr. Trump’s campaign soundtrack stayed consistent as well. Mr. Trump has been entering and exiting the stage at his events to the song “Rolling in the Deep” by Adele, whose representatives have issued a statement this week that he did not have permission to use her music. He continued to use the song on Thursday night. Rival campaigns may want to note that the first verse ends with: “Don’t underestimate the things that I will do.”