 The political network overseen by Charles and David Koch spent $400 million in 2015 to fund political and philanthropic organizations, officials announced on Saturday at the Koch’s annual winter conference in California. The figure, which was reported by Buzzfeed and The Hill, puts the Koch political network just under halfway through a two-year spending goal announced last year, signifying a major expansion by the Kochs and the hundreds of right-leaning donors aligned with them. A spokesman for the Koch’s umbrella political organization, Freedom Partners, declined to comment on the spending figure. The money goes to fund a variety of educational groups, such as universities, think tanks, and issue groups, most of which are not required to disclose their donors. But the network also funds more overtly political organizations, such as Americans for Prosperity, a grassroots organization with chapters around the country. A “super PAC” associated with the Koch network, Freedom Partners Action Fund, reported on Sunday raising $11 million, according to documents filed with the Federal Election Commission, including $3 million from a trust in Charles Koch’s name. As their spending on conservative causes has accelerated, the Kochs and their allies have also moved to reshape public opinion about their motives, partnering with traditionally liberal organizations on issues like reducing prison sentences. The Koch’s have also granted a series of personal interviews with media outlets in recent months, something both brothers have avoided for years.  Charles Koch addressed the guests on Saturday night, according to a transcript of his remarks provided by a Freedom Partners spokesman. “We have ideas that will make America better, and we need to share them, and we need to each stand up and be open,” Mr. Koch told his guests. Their network, Mr. Koch added, “isn’t some secret cabal.” Buzzfeed and The Hill disclosed that their journalists were permitted to attend portions of the Koch’s donor seminar, held each winter in Indian Wells, Calif.,, so long as neither outlet revealed the names of any donors without that person’s consent.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.