 MOUNT PLEASANT, S.C. — Senator Ted Cruz of Texas outlined his plans to strengthen the military in an address aboard the U.S.S. Yorktown on Tuesday, advocating what he called a “more tooth, less tail” approach. In his speech on the World War II-era aircraft carrier, Mr. Cruz called for increasing the number of active duty forces to at least 1.4 million from 1.3 million, as well as improving the nation’s Air Force capabilities — to at least 6,000 planes, with a minimum of 1,500 tactical fighter aircraft, an increase from roughly 4,000 aircraft. “Anything less creates a continuing training and readiness gap that risks the lives of the men and women who volunteer to serve this great nation,” he said. “At a time when our air superiority should be one of America’s great advantages, our ability to project power and obtain air superiority is tragically anemic.” Mr. Cruz’s last-minute policy speech (the campaign announced it on Monday night) highlights how, days before Saturday’s Republican primary in South Carolina, he is trying to emphasize his national security credentials in a state in which veterans and members of the military make up large segments of the population. He is also pushing back against attacks by rivals who have cast him as weak on foreign policy and national defense. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida has repeatedly attacked Mr. Cruz for refusing to vote for the National Defense Authorization Act, which funds the military. And the Texas senator has also come under scrutiny for his decision to support the USA Freedom Act, compromise legislation that limited the National Security Agency’s ability to collect bulk metadata from phone records. Mr. Cruz has said he voted against the defense authorization bills because they did not explicitly ban President Obama from indefinitely detaining United States citizens without due process. Though Mr. Cruz’s positions on national security — he is less hawkish than Mr. Rubio — helped him win over some supporters of Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky — who dropped out of the presidential race — in New Hampshire, voters in South Carolina have typically gravitated toward candidates eager for a strong commander in chief. In his address, Mr. Cruz criticized both Mr. Obama and Hillary Clinton, a secretary of state in the Obama administration, and seemed to try to strike a balance between promising to be tough on national defense by increasing the size of the nation’s fighting force, while also promising not to be to quick to intervene in conflicts around the globe. And he promised smarter spending on defense. Mr. Cruz also weighed in on other issues — what to do with Syrian refuges, immigration and women in combat. “We are not going to admit refugees into the United States who may have been infiltrated by ISIS terrorists,” he said, to applause. “We are not going to grant American citizenship to individuals who are here illegally.” And, he added, “As the father of two daughters, I can tell you we are not going to draft American women into military combat.” Mr. Cruz did not specifically explain how he would pay for his military expansion, but pointed to his spending plan, which he said would reduce the federal budget by $500 billion over 10 years, and also talked about reducing “waste, fraud and abuse” at the Pentagon. “First, and foremost, we are not going to expand the bloated bureaucracy that is stifling progress and innovation at the Pentagon,” Mr. Cruz said. Directly addressing his critics, Mr. Cruz said, “If you think it’s too expensive to defend this nation, try not defending it.” He concluded by talking about the illustrious history of the U.S.S. Yorktown, and conjuring an image of a stronger America. “Starting next year, our sailors won’t be on their knees with their hands on their heads,” Mr. Cruz said, referring to the 10 Navy sailors briefly detained by Iran last month after drifting into Iranian waters. “And our secretary of state will not be apologizing and thanking their Iranian captors.” “Instead,” Mr. Cruz continued, “they will be standing on the decks of the mightiest ships the world has ever known with their heads held high, confident that the great country that they volunteered to serve has their back.” Speaking to reporters after the event, Mr. Cruz couldn’t help but take aim at Donald J. Trump, his chief rival, who has threatened to sue him over his eligibility to run for president, because he was born in Canada. “It seems that Donald is very rattled right now,” Mr. Cruz said. “He gets very upset and when he gets upset, he engages in insults.”