 Donald J. Trump called an impromptu news conference on Thursday night in Nevada to criticize National Review, the conservative magazine that published a series of essays denouncing his candidacy.  “That’s a dying paper, really. I mean pretty much. I got to tell you, that’s a dying paper,” Mr. Trump said of the publication. He took to Twitter to ensure his comments were seen more broadly, echoing his past disapproval about the magazine’s editor, Rich Lowry.   Mr. Trump, who is leading national polls for the Republican presidential nomination, got a boost from the Republican National Committee, whose officials appear to have disinvited the publication from co-sponsoring a debate on Feb. 25.  Jack Fowler, the publisher of National Review, wrote on its website late Thursday that the publication had already received payback from the Republican Party for attacking the man who has been center stage at all the debates.  “Tonight, a top official with the R.N.C. called me to say that National Review was being disinvited,” Mr. Fowler wrote.  “The reason: Our ‘Against Trump’ editorial and symposium. We expected this was coming. Small price to pay for speaking the truth about The Donald.”  A spokesman for the party did not respond to an email seeking comment.  Mr. Trump used the opportunity to assert that he is a candidate with broad support. “I have received so many phone calls from people that you would call ‘establishment,’ from people, generally speaking, Republicans that want to come on our team,” Mr. Trump told the reporters. Asked about Senator Ted Cruz deploying the phrase “deal maker” against him — a phrase used by Bob Dole, the former Republican presidential nominee, in an interview this week with The New York Times — Mr. Trump sounded thrilled.  “I am a deal maker,” said Mr. Trump, calling Mr. Cruz “a strident person.”  “We need a deal maker. We need somebody that knows what they’re doing,” he said, invoking the relationship between President Ronald Reagan and Tip O’Neill, then the speaker of the House.  “I watched Ronald Reagan and Tip O’Neill do a great job together,” Mr. Trump said. “They were very different kinds of people, and yet they were able to make deals and the country was really singing.”  He ticked through his greatest hits against Mr. Cruz, including questioning Mr. Cruz’s American citizenship and the loans he took from Goldman Sachs and Citibank for his Senate campaign in 2012.  Mr. Trump declined to answer certain questions, however, in another sign of how he has grown as a candidate. Asked about black nominees at the Oscars, Mr. Trump, who answered a similar question inartfully earlier this week, demurred. “This country has bigger problems right now than the Oscars,” he said. 