 Donald J. Trump often opines on the economic risks of manufacturing American products overseas. Now he can add his daughter’s line of Chinese-made scarves to his list of concerns. The Consumer Product Safety Commission announced on Wednesday that 20,000 Ivanka Trump-branded scarves are being recalled for violating the U.S. Federal Flammability Standard. The scarves, which are manufactured in China and made entirely of rayon, are considered a safety risk. “This is a dangerous product,” said Scott Wolfson, a spokesman for the C.P.S.C. The regulator said that it noticed the scarves online and that its experts acquired samples and tested them for flammability. So far there have been no reported cases of injuries from an igniting scarf. “We’re disappointed to learn of the need for Global Brands Group, our license partner, to recall two styles of Ivanka Trump scarves,” Tricia Whalen, a spokeswoman for the Ivanka Trump Collection, said in a statement, “but we are relieved that immediate action is being taken.” She added: “We’re seeing to it that this issue is fixed immediately.” The United States has strict flammability regulations on the materials used in clothing and textiles to reduce the risk of serious burns. Consumers are advised to return Ms. Trump’s scarves, which are sold online and at stores such as Century 21, Lord &amp; Taylor, and Marshalls, to get full refunds. Mr. Wolfson noted that the scarves, which bear Ms. Trump’s name, are licensed through an importer called GBG Accessories Group. Mr. Trump also sells an extensive collection of clothing that is made in China even though he frequently rails against outsourcing and threatens to tax companies that move production to other countries. The safety commission said the majority of its recalls are associated with products that come from China. The two flammable scarf styles are the blue, coral and yellow “Beach Wave” and the blue, red and green “Brushstroke Oblong.” They both have black labels with “Ivanka Trump” embroidered in silver lettering.