  TIGERVILLE, S.C. – Senator Ted Cruz of Texas stood onstage here with a mischievous smile, setting off on a stump speech he is typically loath to change. On this occasion, he could not help himself. “Now I’m curious,” Mr. Cruz told a nearly full auditorium at North Greenville University. “Do the people of South Carolina know what New York values are?” The crowd roared. Laughing off a swelling group of enemies 700 miles away — the New York residents and elected officials who chafed at his ominous dig that one of his rivals, Donald J. Trump, embodied “New York values” — Mr. Cruz appeared eager on Friday to spread the message. He issued a faux apology in remarks to reporters. And on Sean Hannity’s radio show. And in a news release and a post on Twitter. — Ted Cruz (@tedcruz) January 16, 2016  And by day’s end, apparently pleased with the delivery, he introduced the riff to voters. “So today, Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton and Gov. Andrew Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York City all demanded I apologize,” he said theatrically, eliciting some grumbles. “Who am I to say no?” He went on: “I apologize to the millions of New Yorkers who’ve been abandoned for years by liberal politicians.” And on: “I apologize to all the hardworking men and women in New York who’d like to have jobs, but Gov. Cuomo has banned fracking.” And on: “I apologize to all the New Yorkers who are pro-life and pro-marriage and pro-Second Amendment.” And on: “I apologize to all the small businesses that are fleeing New York City because of the crushing taxes and regulations.” And so it went, with Mr. Cruz displaying an impressive handle on New York politics. (He also referenced Mr. de Blasio’s past clashes with his own Police Department and proponents of charter schools.) Wrapping up, Mr. Cruz said he hoped “that was the apology they were looking for.” The attendees, at least, seemed pleased. “He basically apologized to the rest of New York,” said Jim Clinton, 55, from Greer, S.C. “You know what I’m saying?”