 Alabama is closing dozens of offices where people can obtain driver’s licenses, including in places where some of the state’s poorest residents and many African-Americans live.  The decision has gained national attention, in no small part because of the state’s approval of a law in 2011 requiring voters to present photo identification cards, becoming one of several states to make voting laws more restrictive. Several such laws have been implemented in Republican-led states like Alabama. And while the decision to shutter driver licensing offices stems from budget cuts, observers have taken note of how many of the counties affected are where poor and black voters live, who will now have to travel farther to take care of their driver’s licenses. “Depending on which counties you count as being in Alabama’s Black Belt, either 12 or 15 Black Belt counties soon won’t have a place to get a driver’s license,” wrote  Kyle Whitmire, a columnist based in Alabama. “Counties where some of the state’s poorest live,” he wrote. “Counties that are majority African-American.”  Hillary Rodham Clinton, who has made protecting voting rights a focus of her campaign, said in a statement that the decision by the state’s law enforcement department to close offices in 29 counties was the latest example of disenfranchising voters.  “Just a few years ago, Alabama passed a law requiring citizens to have a photo ID to vote,” she said. “Now they’re shutting down places where people get those photo IDs.  This is only going to make it harder for people to vote.  It’s a blast from the Jim Crow past.” She added: “African-Americans fought for the right to vote in the face of unthinkable hatred. They stood up and were beaten down, marched and were turned back. Some were even killed. But in the end, the forces of justice overcame. Alabama should do the right thing. It should reverse this decision. And it should start protecting the franchise for every single voter, no matter the color of their skin.” Mrs. Clinton has proposed, among other measures, automatic voter registration nationally.  The Alabama law went into effect in 2014. Acceptable forms of ID are driver’s licenses, passports and photo ID cards issued by any state, the federal government, the military or any college in Alabama.