 Donald J. Trump said on Friday that current laws on abortion should remain intact, but also agreed with those who see abortion as “murder” in an interview taped for CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  Then his spokeswoman issued a statement saying he meant that the laws should remain intact only until he is inaugurated as president, at which time he would seek to change them.  The whiplash-inducing remarks from Mr. Trump and his team came two days after he sparked a firestorm of bipartisan controversy for telling the MSNBC host Chris Matthews that there should be some form of “punishment” for women who got abortions if doing so became illegal. As he did on Friday, he walked back the punishment comments a few hours later, saying that only the practitioner should be punished. His comments Friday are likely to give fresh ammunition to conservatives who are eager to make abortion illegal, and who have been skeptical of his conversion from an abortion-rights Democrat to an anti-abortion Republican in the last several years.  “A question was asked to me,” Mr. Trump told the CBS host John Dickerson. “And it was asked in a very hypothetical. And it was said, ‘Illegal, illegal.’ ”  He added, “I’ve been told by some people that was an older line answer and that was an answer that was given on a, you know, basis of an older line from years ago on a very conservative basis.” When asked how he would further restrict abortion, Mr. Trump said, “The laws are set now on abortion and that’s the way they’re going to remain until they’re changed.” “I would’ve preferred states’ rights,” he added, saying that the laws now “are set.” “And I think we have to leave it that way.” A short time later, Mr. Trump’s spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, said in a statement: “Mr. Trump gave an accurate account of the law as it is today and made clear it must stay that way now — until he is president. Then he will change the law through his judicial appointments and allow the states to protect the unborn. There is nothing new or different here.” Mr. Dickerson also pressed Mr. Trump on the moral question of abortion. Much as he avoided Mr. Matthews’s initial question, Mr. Trump tried not to answer at first, before ultimately agreeing with the premise of the questioning. “Do you think abortion is murder?” Mr. Dickerson asked. “I have my opinions on it, but I’d rather not comment on it,” Mr. Trump said.  Mr. Dickerson noted that Mr. Trump has said he is “very pro-life,” and that the definition of that phrase means that “abortion is murder.”  “I mean, I do have my opinions on it. I just don’t think it’s an appropriate forum,” Mr. Trump said. “But you don’t disagree with that proposition, that it’s murder?” Mr. Dickerson followed up. “No, I don’t disagree with it,” Mr. Trump said. 