 MANCHESTER, N.H. — Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey approached the presidential race after his re-election in 2013 with the notion that he would be a different kind of Republican, one who could broaden the party’s appeal beyond its base of mostly white, older, working-class voters. On Tuesday, Mr. Christie showed that side of his candidacy once again.  Mr. Christie, who typically trumpets his law-and-order credentials as a former federal prosecutor to prove his toughness to voters, used unusually soft language and conveyed empathy as he dealt with a question about the Black Lives Matter movement from a student.  The matter came up at an event hosted by the New Hampshire Primary Student Convention, and the question itself was charged: How would a President Christie make sure that Black Lives Matter activists “stay peaceful” and not begin the sort of riots that “destroyed cities” in the 1960s?  And Mr. Christie was just as provocative in his answer: He began his answer in the same way that many liberal supporters of Black Lives Matter might have done, expressing skepticism with the premise of the question by noting that “circumstances today are certainly different than in the 1960s.” He noted that the riots of that era were due in part to “a completely racist enforcement of the law, especially in our southern states,” as well as the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Mr. Christie then expressed a sentiment shared by some Black Lives Matter activists: People don’t just need to be treated fairly – they need to feel that they will be treated fairly. “Justice has to be more than a word, everybody, justice has to become a way of life in our country,” Mr. Christie said. “The attorney general, law enforcement officers and elected officials across the country have to be reminded that the perception of justice is almost important as justice itself,” he added. He went on to call for “a fair and even allocation of the law, and the perception that it’s being done that way as well.” He pointed to the lack of rioting in the predominantly black city of Camden, N.J., as evidence that people there “feel” that the police department is working with them to keep the city safe. This was the result, he said, of “hard work and opening your ears and listening to people,” he said. The city of Camden has been a reference point for Mr. Christie in the past — he has cited the city as a model for how to combat drug addiction.  Earlier, at the event at the Radisson Hotel in Manchester, Mr. Christie was asked if he believed he could beat Donald J. Trump, who continues to lead polls in the state.  With his trademark bravura, Mr. Christie said that he wouldn’t be running if he didn’t think he could beat him. But, turning more serious, Mr. Christie cautioned that polls — which, he noted, Mr. Trump talks about frequently — are not the ultimate measure of support. Until actual votes are cast, he suggested, it’s all up in the air. 