 Rush Limbaugh, the conservative radio host who defended Donald J. Trump’s proposal to bar Muslim immigrants, took issue with the real-estate developer on Monday for his attacks on Senator Ted Cruz of Texas as a “maniac” for how he has battled with the Republican Senate leadership.  “My questioning here about the way Trump has gone off Cruz here, calling him a maniac, refusing to work with people in the Senate, the reason I’m focusing on that, folks, ’cause that’s so unlike Trump.  I mean, that’s a huge mistake,” Mr. Limbaugh said on his radio show on Monday, according to a transcript.   “On paper it’s a huge mistake. Trump gets away with his mistakes. Such is the bond of loyalty that his support base has for him that he gets away with them. And I don’t think he’s made that many. Don’t misunderstand,” Mr. Limbaugh said before adding: “But for any of you who are holding out hope that Trump is a genuine conservative. A genuine conservative, even in the Republican field, would not go after Cruz this way. So that just raised a red flag for me, made me somewhat curious.”  Last week, Mr. Cruz raised questions about Mr. Trump’s judgment at a private fund-raiser, and someone who attended made an audio recording. A day later, Mr. Trump laid into Mr. Cruz on the stump in Iowa and in a taped interview with CNN’s Jake Tapper. He suggested in the interview that Mr. Cruz, who is known as a bomb thrower in the Senate, had been a “bit of a maniac” in dealing with the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell.  But Mr. Cruz is potentially a more durable target than others whom Mr. Trump has attacked. He has strong supporters from his victory over an establishment candidate in the 2012 Senate primary, and he helped lead the charge to defund the Affordable Care Act that resulted in a government shutdown in 2013.  In many instances, Mr. Limbaugh and other conservative radio talk show hosts, such as Mark Levin, have provided protection for Mr. Trump against criticism from the news media or establishment rivals. But over the weekend, on his Facebook page, Mr. Levin questioned Mr. Trump’s criticisms of Mr. Cruz. And Mr. Limbaugh struck a similar note on his show.  Among his sharpest barbs, Mr. Limbaugh compared Mr. Trump to Senator John McCain of Arizona, who lost to Barack Obama as the Republican presidential nominee in 2008 and who has become a derisive symbol for the right of the party’s losses.   Mr. Trump has “decided to go after Cruz here in the way the establishment Republicans go after Cruz, in the way the media goes after Cruz, in the way the Democrats go after Cruz,” Mr. Limbaugh said. “He’s essentially put on his John McCain hat here and is saying: ‘I’m Donald McCain, and I’m the guy that can cross the aisle and work with the other side. Ted Cruz can’t.’ I was kind of surprised by that.”  