 A longtime Republican consultant who has been harshly criticized by Donald J. Trump filed a multimillion-dollar lawsuit on Monday accusing him and his campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, of making false statements that harmed her professionally and personally. The consultant, Cheri Jacobus, accused Mr. Trump and Mr. Lewandowski of libeling her by depicting her as a disappointed job-seeker who turned on Mr. Trump after he declined to hire her. When Ms. Jacobus criticized Mr. Trump on CNN in late January and early February, Mr. Trump branded her on Twitter as “a real dummy” who had “begged my people for a job.” Mr. Lewandowski described her in similar terms on television. But in the legal filing, Ms. Jacobus claims those accusations were false and caused “enormous damage to her career and reputation, significant emotional distress” and held her up to “public ridicule.” The jabs from the Trump camp prompted an onslaught of online abuse, according to the lawsuit and news reports. “The attacks by Trump’s followers were laced with sexual degradation and pornographic vulgarity,” the lawsuit states. It says of Ms. Jacobus, “She was depicted in numerous graphic illustrations as an appropriate victim for rape and sexual assault.”  Hope Hicks, a spokeswoman for the Trump campaign, said in a statement that the lawsuit had no merit. “This is just another frivolous lawsuit and an attempt to gain notoriety at the expense of Donald Trump,” she said. The litigation comes only days after the Trump campaign escaped another embarrassing legal bind, after a Florida prosecutor declined to prosecute Mr. Lewandowski on a charge of battery for after he was accused of manhandling a reporter at a campaign event.  Jay R. Butterman, a lawyer for Ms. Jacobus, acknowledged in an email that “libel suits are generally difficult to prove,” but insisted that “in this matter it is indisputable that the statements of Trump and his agents which are the subject of this lawsuit are defamatory.” “Donald Trump far exceeded the legitimate bounds of free expression in his false attacks on Ms. Jacobus,” Mr. Butterman wrote. “He should be held accountable for his actions.” The lawsuit seeks at least $4 million in damages from Mr. Trump, Mr. Lewandowski and the Trump presidential campaign. The legal filing from Ms. Jacobus also offers a window into the early atmosphere of the Trump political operation. It details a series of interactions with the Trump operation late last spring, stating  that Jim Dornan, a Trump aide who has since left the campaign, had sought to recruit Ms. Jacobus. Mr. Lewandowski, the lawsuit says, boasted in one meeting about Mr. Trump’s friendships with major television news personalities, including Roger Ailes and Bill O’Reilly of Fox News, and Joe Scarborough of MSNBC. In a second meeting, Ms. Jacobus claims, Mr. Lewandowski bragged about “yelling at Megyn Kelly, a well-known journalist.” “Lewandowski,” the lawsuit says, “then took from his desk drawer a printed copy of an email from Ailes to Trump in which Ailes communicated to Trump that Trump should let him know what FOX could do to help.” In a statement, a Fox News spokeswoman, Irena Briganti, said any message from Mr. Ailes would have been entirely innocuous. “It’s hardly uncommon for Roger Ailes to sign correspondence by offering a helping hand, but it would be a fanciful interpretation to equate a cordial email with providing assistance to a political candidate in the vein of editorial coverage,” Ms. Briganti said. Mr. Ailes, she added, had no recollection of ever having met Mr. Lewandowski. Ms. Jacobus also claims that Mr. Lewandowski openly discussed plans to form a “super PAC” supporting Mr. Trump’s campaign. In one meeting, the lawsuit says, Mr. Lewandowski and another Trump adviser “explained that while Trump was ostensibly self-funding his campaign, there would still be a pro-Trump super PAC.”