 Martin Sheen’s most famous White House role was as President Josiah Bartlet in “The West Wing.” But he also played A. J. MacInerney, chief of staff to President Andrew Shepherd, in “The American President.” President Shepherd, portrayed by Michael Douglas, was a former governor of Wisconsin, and presumably Mr. MacInerney, the president’s longtime best friend, had fictional Wisconsin ties as well. Perhaps that is one reason People for the American Way chose Mr. Sheen to be the voice on their new automated telephone call to thousands of Wisconsin voters criticizing Ron Johnson, the state’s Republican senator, for saying he does not believe the Senate should fill the new Supreme Court vacancy until after the presidential election. On the call, Mr. Sheen/MacInerney/Bartlet urges the recipients to reach out to Mr. Johnson’s Senate office and “tell him you expect him to put his constitutional duties first — and give fair consideration to President Obama’s nominee.” The group is preparing a similar campaign aimed at Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, but there is no word on who will provide a voice for that call. The robocalls are examples of the political activity quickly springing up around the court fight. On Friday, the Progressive Change Campaign Committee is scheduled to deliver to the Louisville office of Senator Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican and majority leader, 500,000 signatures calling for an up-or-down vote on any nominee.  On the other side of the issue,  the Judicial Crisis Network says it is putting seven figures behind a 30-second ad lauding Republican senators for standing firm against any nominee and waiting until after the election. “This isn’t about Republicans or Democrats, it’s about your voice,” says a female narrator in the commercial, called “Let the People Decide.” It will run during network and cable shows on Sunday and in Arizona, Iowa, Kentucky, New Hampshire, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.