 DERRY, N.H. — Jeb Bush, who promised to run for president by showing voters his heart, is making an especially personal appeal in New Hampshire on Tuesday, where he plans to discuss his daughter’s struggles with addiction. Speaking at a forum on addiction and the heroin epidemic at Southern New Hampshire University in the afternoon, Mr. Bush will not only unveil his drug control strategy but also talk about how his family has intimately experienced the ravages of addiction. In a post on Medium previewing his speech, Mr. Bush wrote in deeply personal terms about his daughter Noelle, who in 2002 was found with crack cocaine while at a rehabilitation center in Florida. She had been arrested earlier that year when she tried to use a fraudulent prescription to buy anti-anxiety pills. “As a father, I have felt the heartbreak of drug abuse,” Mr. Bush wrote. “My daughter Noelle suffered from addiction, and like many parents facing similar situations, her mom and I struggled to help.” In the post, he discussed how addiction “crosses all barriers, all lines, all races and all incomes” to create “real hardship and heartbreak in families,” and wrote about the toll Noelle’s struggles placed on the family. “I never expected to see my precious daughter in jail,” he wrote. “It wasn’t easy, and it became very public when I was governor of Florida, making things even more difficult for Noelle. She went through hell, so did her mom, and so did I.” Mr. Bush sometimes mentions his daughter on the campaign trail, especially in New Hampshire, which is grappling with a heroin epidemic. He says that his daughter’s struggles played out in a particularly public fashion — because he was Florida governor at the time — and perhaps faced stricter penalties as a result, lest the drug court be accused to nepotism. But his blog post Tuesday is his most overt attempt to tie his personal experience with a distinct policy proposal. Mr. Bush’s plan to deal with the issue has four main components: preventing drug abuse and addiction, strengthening the criminal justice system, securing the southern border with Mexico to stop the flow of illegal drugs, and improving treatment and recovery programs.