 A “super PAC” backing Hillary Clinton raised more than $25 million during the last six months of 2015, officials with the group said on Friday, with $10 million more arriving in January. The rising pace of fund-raising puts the group, Priorities USA Action, in a stronger early position than any Democratic super PAC before it, in an election cycle where Republican outside groups are expected to spend heavily to help the party’s eventual nominee reclaim the White House. All told, the group has raised almost $51 million in the 2016 election cycle. In addition to the money raised, donors have committed to providing at least $42 million in additional contributions, officials said. Those pledges would allow the group to exceed its total fund-raising for the 2012 cycle, when Priorities was formed to help President Obama win re-election. As of Friday, the group had almost $45 million in cash on hand. “We have raised significantly more resources than at this point in 2012, built a team of our Party’s strongest leaders and activists, and are developing cutting-edge strategies to reach Democratic and undecided voters in every battleground state,” Guy Cecil, the group’s co-chairman, said in a memorandum obtained by The New York Times. While full details of Priorities’ fund-raising will not be available until the super PAC files its official fund-raising reports with the Federal Election Commission this weekend, Mr. Cecil’s memorandum said the group had raised money from several labor unions that are backing Mrs. Clinton, including the American Federation of Teachers and the Laborers’ International Union of North America. A person with knowledge of the group’s fund-raising said the organization had also secured large donations or commitments from a number of wealthy individuals, including James Simons, a New York hedge fund founder, and Danny Abraham, a Florida entrepreneur. While Mrs. Clinton remains locked in the polls with Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont in Iowa and New Hampshire, Priorities has so far banked most of its money for an expected general election campaign. The group’s spending for the 2016 cycle includes just $444,961 on independent expenditures as of Friday, most of it defending Mrs. Clinton from Republican attacks or promoting Mrs. Clinton’s positions.