 As President Obama doubles down on climate change as a legacy issue, the White House has appointed Thomas Reynolds, a top communications strategist at the Environmental Protection Agency and a seasoned political operative, to a new position dedicated solely to messaging Mr. Obama’s global warming agenda. Mr. Reynolds has already spent the past two years at the E.P.A. running an aggressive public relations campaign to build support for Mr. Obama’s climate change push. That push is anchored in a set of ambitious new E.P.A. regulations on coal-fired power plants, which Republicans have attacked as a “war on coal.”   In defending and promoting the E.P.A.’s climate rules, Mr. Reynolds injected the agency’s typically staid public affairs office with the brash sensibility of a political campaign, derived from his experience directing regional media operations for Mr. Obama’s 2012 re-election.  He arranged for the agency’s administrator, Gina McCarthy, to speak about the rule in events around the country – from the Iowa State Fair to a major oil industry meeting, and flooded social media with Twitter messages, videos and Facebook shares about the impacts of climate change. But the stakes for the rules – and opposition against them – have been climbing. This fall in Paris, Mr. Obama hopes to be a broker in the forging of a new deal committing every nation on Earth to enacting climate change plans at home – those E.P.A. rules are key to the United States’ leverage in the deal.  But the push against them is fierce: The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, has urged governors not to comply with the rules, and has also told international climate negotiators that the United States’ plan may be repealed.   While Mr. Reynolds’s public relations campaigns elevated the issue of climate change, they sometimes got him into hot water. In trying to build public support for a new clean water regulation, Mr. Reynolds created a Twitter campaign urging people to speak out in favor of the rule. But some legal experts have contended that campaign might have tested the limits of federal lobbying laws, which prohibit a government agency from engaging in grass-roots lobbying for proposed policies or legislation.