 Senator David Vitter has had a rougher road to the Louisiana governor’s office than he or most anyone expected, and on Thursday it got a little bit rougher. Lt. Gov. Jay Dardenne, one of Mr. Vitter’s Republican rivals in the primary, endorsed the Democrat in the runoff election, State Representative John Bel Edwards. “When are we as Louisianans going to stop tolerating the embarrassment that too many of our elected officials have heaped upon this state,” Mr. Dardenne said to reporters on the campus of Louisiana State University, repeating his descriptions of Mr. Vitter during the nasty primary fight. “Honor, integrity, truthfulness, openness and ethical behavior are the most important traits in public services. John Bel is the candidate who exemplifies these traits.” Mr. Dardenne began his remarks by emphasizing that he has been a Republican for several decades and remains one. But he said that the Republican brand had been damaged by Bobby Jindal, the unpopular governor, and that it would be further damaged by Mr. Vitter’s election. The endorsement was not entirely surprising but it certainly does not help Mr. Vitter, who has shown up far behind Mr. Edwards in multiple polls taken since the two won the nonpartisan primary on Oct. 24. The runoff is Nov. 21. Endorsements so far have been otherwise mostly predictable, with Mr. Vitter winning the support of the Republican delegation in the state House of Representatives and of a former governor, Mike Foster. Mr. Edwards, whose father was a sheriff and who has two brothers are in law enforcement, was endorsed by the state sheriff’s association. During the primary Mr. Dardenne and another Republican, Scott Angelle, a public service commissioner, bristled at attacks from the Vitter campaign and, as the weeks went on, gave as good as they got. While Mr. Vitter accused both of being loose-spending liberals, Mr. Dardenne and Mr. Angelle both accused Mr. Vitter of lying and explicitly talked of his 2007 prostitution scandal, in which Mr. Vitter admitted only to a “very serious sin.” Mr. Dardenne came in fourth with 15 percent and Mr. Angelle a close third; Mr. Vitter, once considered a safe front-runner, won 23 percent of the vote while Mr. Edwards came in first with a surprisingly robust 40 percent. In a letter to Mr. Dardenne after his announcement, Reince Priebus, chairman of the Republican National Committee, and Roger F. Villere Jr., the chairman of the state party, called the endorsement “extremely disappointing and act of betrayal to the Republican party.” “You cannot claim to be a conservative fighter for Louisiana principles and … endorse an Obama liberal like Mr. Edwards,” the letter read.