 LANSING, Mich. — As voters in Michigan go to the polls on Tuesday, Gov. John Kasich of Ohio is getting some help from Mitt Romney, who recorded a get-out-the-vote call for Mr. Kasich’s campaign. Mr. Romney spoke out forcefully last week against Donald J. Trump, and he also recorded a phone message for Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who, like Mr. Kasich, is trying to cut into Mr. Trump’s support. Mr. Romney’s calls are going to Republican voters in Michigan and the three other states voting on Tuesday: Mississippi, Idaho and Hawaii. Mr. Romney’s father, George Romney, was Michigan’s governor, and Mr. Kasich has put significant effort into the state, which borders Ohio. He held a rally at a brewery in Lansing on Tuesday, then planned to return to Ohio, where he will spend primary night. The call recorded by Mr. Romney on Mr. Kasich’s behalf is virtually identical to the one he recorded for Mr. Rubio. It focuses on undermining Mr. Trump, rather than making a case for Mr. Kasich. “These are critical times that demand a serious, thoughtful commander in chief,” Mr. Romney says in the message. “If we Republicans were to choose Donald Trump as our nominee, the prospects for a safe and prosperous future would be greatly diminished, and I’m convinced Donald Trump would lose to Hillary Clinton.” Asked if he agreed with Mr. Romney’s assertion about how the country’s future would be affected by Mr. Trump being the nominee, Mr. Kasich put some distance between himself and the phone message. “Governor Romney’s kind of recording robocalls for everyone, and I didn’t want somebody to think that he favored one person over me, because he doesn’t,” Mr. Kasich told reporters after the rally in Lansing. “So, you know, it’s his words. I don’t write his scripts.” Reminded that his own campaign paid for the calls, he responded, “We want to make sure people don’t think that Romney’s for somebody else and not for me, particularly in the state of Michigan.” “So is this the scenario that I would have liked to have had it work out like this? Not really,” he added. “But it is what it is.”