 The public is split on whether President Obama should nominate a new Supreme Court justice before his term ends, according to a CBS News poll released on Thursday — and that divide falls almost entirely along party lines. More than four in five Republicans, presumably hoping for their party’s victory in November, want the Supreme Court vacancy left by the death of Justice Antonin Scalia to be filled by the next president. Almost as many Democrats, 77 percent, think Mr. Obama should choose Mr. Scalia’s successor. Over all, 47 percent of Americans say Mr. Obama should make the pick and 46 percent say he should not, the poll shows. The numbers mirror Mr. Obama’s broader job approval rating, which is at 47 percent approval and 45 percent disapproval, according to the poll. It was conducted from Friday, the day before Mr. Scalia’s death, to Tuesday, and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus two percentage points among all respondents. (The questions about the court were added to the survey on Sunday, and were asked of 961 respondents.) The public’s opinion of the court’s performance is more positive than it has been since 2012, when CBS News started asking the question. Currently, 49 percent approve of the job the Supreme Court is doing, and 37 percent disapprove. Democrats hold a higher opinion than Republicans, with 55 percent approving compared to 46 percent of Republicans. The partisan divide over the court appointment reflects the positions that each party’s leadership has taken in the wake of Mr. Scalia’s death. Both parties know that a liberal appointee would swing the Supreme Court’s balance of power to the left.  Eighty-two percent of Americans who call themselves very liberal want Mr. Obama to appoint a new justice, while 79 percent of very conservative respondents want the next president to do it. More than three-fourths of white evangelical Christians want it to be the incoming president’s prerogative. The CBS News poll is not the only recent survey to measure public opinions on replacing Mr. Scalia. A Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll also released on Thursday found a comparable result to a similar question, with Democrats wanting Mr. Obama to name a new justice and Republicans saying the next president should do so. Giovanni Russonello is a member of The Times’s news surveys department. This is one of an occasional series of posts taking a deeper look at polling during this campaign cycle.
