 Here’s how we analyzed the fifth Democratic debate in real time, and our live fact checks. _____  With four days until the New Hampshire primary, Senator Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton, the former secretary of state, faced off in their first one-on-one debate of the Democratic primary cycle. These were the highlights: • Hillary Clinton used her opening statement to agree with Bernie Sanders about the rigged economy and a corrupt campaign finance system, but she also focused on racism and sexism by saying, “how we treat people as opposed to how we want to be treated.” • She closed with a line that her campaign has been using to try to paint Mr. Sanders as simply an idealist: “I’m not making promises that I cannot keep,” Mrs. Clinton said. • The first substantive disagreement between the two candidates was about health care. Mrs. Clinton said Mr. Sanders wanted to scrap the Affordable Care Act and start all over again. Mr. Sanders was quick to respond, saying the idea that he would dismantle the health care law is “just not accurate.” He said in the future he hoped to “rally the American people” to achieve health care for all. • The two candidates spent a long time debating their progressive credentials. Mrs. Clinton listed positions by Mr. Sanders she didn’t think were “progressive,” like voting against the Brady bill of gun control and accused Mr. Sanders of “cherry-picking a quote here or there” to describe her as a moderate. • Mr. Sanders ended the argument by saying they should not debate “definitions” but “issues.” • After they debated what it was to be a “progressive,” the candidates went on to debate what it was to be a part of the “establishment.” In an effort to show that Mr. Sanders doesn’t have the broad support of even the people who know him best, Mrs. Clinton listed all of her supporters and endorsees from Vermont. Mr. Sanders said that those endorsements meant Mrs. Clinton was part of the establishment, and that he represented “ordinary Americans.” • Mrs. Clinton expressed frustration and a direct criticism at Mr. Sanders for his campaign ads that “by innuendo, by insinuation,” claim Mrs. Clinton has been bought by speaking fees from general interest groups. She called these “smears” by Mr. Sanders. • The complaint walked right into Mr. Sanders stump speech, as he pointed to deregulation of Wall Street following campaign contributions and lobbying, and Republican opposition to climate change legislation to donations from Exxon and the Koch brothers. • Mrs. Clinton was asked by the moderators, not by Mr. Sanders, about the speaking fees she took from Wall Street firms. She admitted that she “may not have done the job I should in explaining my record,” but listed the many billionaires who are attacking her, and said she had a plan on how to stop Wall Street from maintaining its power. • A  voter asked Mrs. Clinton a question through the moderator: Will you release the transcripts of your Goldman Sachs speeches, as well as all of your paid speeches? Mrs. Clinton replied: “I will look into it. I don’t know the status, but I will certainly look into it,” while later she pleaded to “look at my record” when it came to her economic plans. • On the question of combating ISIS, both Mr. Sanders and Mrs. Clinton said they agreed with President Obama’s plan of arming more Arab and Kurdish forces and providing special forces. • Mr. Sanders brought up Mrs. Clinton’s vote for the Iraq war in 2002, to which Mrs. Clinton replied: “A vote in 2002 is not a plan to defeat ISIS. We have to look at the threats that we face now.” • With regards to Iran, Mrs. Clinton accused Mr. Sanders of wanting to normalize relations with Iran. He said he wouldn’t “do it tomorrow,” or any time soon. But he said he kept open the hope to “move forward” with the country in the future, pointing to recent normalizing of relations with Cuba as an example of reconciling with an enemy. • When asked which country – Russia, China or North Korea – posed a bigger security threat, Mr. Sanders said the isolation of North Korea worried him, while Mrs. Clinton saw Russia as a threat for pitting European countries against one another. • Mr. Sanders and Mrs. Clinton were in lock step on the issue of veterans affairs, often nodding as the other spoke. Both adamantly said they would never privatize the Department of Veterans Affairs, and criticized Republican votes and efforts by the “Koch brothers” against veterans aid bills in the Senate. • Mrs. Clinton said she was “one hundred percent confident” that the F.B.I. investigation into her emails would not turn up a single problem. She also criticized the process of “retroactive classifications.” Mr. Sanders reiterated his commitment to “not politicize” the issue. • Mrs. Clinton said she reluctantly supported the death penalty only in “very limited, particularly heinous crimes” like terrorism, but disagreed with its use in many states. Mr. Sanders said he would instead “lock them up” and “toss away the key.” He concluded: “I just don’t want to see government be part of killing.” • As president, Mr. Sanders said he would support trade, despite being against every trade deal over the past 30 years. He said that those were “written by corporate America, for corporate America,” and that he wanted to protect the American worker. • In an amicable moment, Mr. Sanders said, “I happen to respect the secretary very much. On our worst days, it is fair to say, we are 100 times better than any Republican candidate.” Mrs. Clinton smiled and offered her hand. Mr. Sanders took it, and as they shook hands, the crowd roared. • Their closing statements reflected their pitches in brief words. Mrs. Clinton pleaded to “bring both your heart and your head” to vote on Tuesday, an implicit contrast with Mr. Sanders that he is all heart but unable to get his platform done. Mr. Sanders called for a “political revolution.”