 TAMPA, Fla. — With Florida’s March 15 primary looming, Donald J. Trump drew another of his massive crowds Friday night in Tampa, where he boasted of his résumé as a developer and job creator in Florida.  It was a preview of the argument he will no doubt use to strip support from the state’s two home-grown candidates, Jeb Bush, the former governor, and Senator Marco Rubio. “I’ve spent a lot of money in Florida, nobody else has,’’ Mr. Trump said. “I’ve created tremendous numbers of jobs down here.’’ He spoke of properties he developed in Miami-Dade and Palm Beach Counties and emphasized that many of the workers were Hispanic, an effort to mitigate his harsh stance against illegal immigration.     “The Hispanics love me,’’ Mr. Trump maintained.  “And by the way, by the way, by the way, today I just settled with Univision. They’re happy. I’m happy.’’ (On Thursday, Mr. Trump settled a suit with the Spanish-language network over its decision last year to drop Trump beauty pageants after his comments that Mexican migrants included rapists and other criminals.)      When someone shouted “Jorge Ramos,’’ the Univision anchor Mr. Trump once ejected from a news conference for pressing him on immigration, Mr. Trump said he now planned to do an interview with Mr. Ramos. Mr. Trump recounted a long tale that he said he had never publicly told, about buying the Doral golf resort near Miami in 2012. He told of driving down the $170 million price he agreed to even after signing a contract. “I said listen fellas, ‘I’m not going to pay 170,’’’ he said. “’The place is in lousy condition. I’m not paying it.  You defrauded me.’’’ The sellers responded, in Mr. Trump’s telling, “No way!’’ and threatened to find another buyer. Mr. Trump’s response: he would tie up the deal in court for years. “Anyway, after about four minutes we agreed to take $20 million off,’’ he crowed. “I paid $150 million.  For four minutes work, I save $20 million.’’ The moral of the story was clear: As president, Mr. Trump would bring the same art-of-the deal prowess to negotiations with foreign countries.  “For me this is fun,’’ he said.  “It’s a game.  For John Kerry, it’s work.  It’s labor.  Look at the deal he made with Iran.’’ Pointing to the Doral purchase, he said,  “That’s the way we should be doing it with our country, right?’’  He did not mention that the PGA said last year it would explore moving a tournament from the Doral after Mr. Trump called for a ban on Muslims entering the country.  Before  the rally, which about 10,000 attended on the campus of the University of South Florida,  Trump supporters said they saw value in the country being run by a business tycoon.  “The Carnegies, the Mellons all built this country up,’’ said Terri Peavy, who works in real estate in Tampa.  “Even though they were robber barons, they provided the foundation.’’ In response to rivals’ criticism that Mr. Trump lacks governing experience, Kathy Simonelli, an administrative assistant from Fort Myers, said:  “I think he’s seasoned as a businessman. He’s someone worldly and knows how to deal with people.’’ A large part of Mr. Trump’s political success is driven by voters who find his experiences equal, and in many cases superior, to time in elected office.   “Politicians, the establishment, everything is so broke,’’ Ms. Simonelli said.  “You get somebody like Trump that says I’ll make America great again – it sounds like a fairy tale.  But that’s where we’re at.  We’ll try him.’’