 CLEVELAND — Donald J. Trump on Wednesday praised the longtime corporate employee who assumed blame for two passages in Melania Trump’s convention speech that were lifted from Michelle Obama’s 2008 Democratic National Convention address, but he conceded that the public admission should have come a day earlier. “I wanted to protect her — she’s been a person that’s been very good to me,” Mr. Trump said in an interview with The New York Times, when asked if he had anything to add to the lengthy open letter from the employee, Meredith McIver, on the campaign’s website. “Absolutely. But it was getting to a point where it didn’t make sense — I mean, look at your story today.” The Times on Tuesday evening identified Ms. McIver, who works for the Trump Organization and who has worked on some of Mr. Trump’s books, as the person to whom Ms. Trump turned when she decided to shelve the bulk of a speech written for her by professional political speechwriters hired by her son-in-law, Jared Kushner. But the company and the campaign declined to elaborate on Ms. McIver’s role on Tuesday. On Wednesday, however, she said that early in the writing process she had been read those passages by Ms. Trump as examples of text that the candidate’s wife liked. Those passages were then incorporated, with some changed language, into Ms. Trump’s address, sparking a controversy that overshadowed the Monday night speech. Mr. Trump thanked Ms. McIver for coming forward. “She is terrific, she’s a terrific woman,” he said. “She’s been with us a long time, and she just made a mistake. You saw her letter. And she came in and she said, ‘Mr. Trump, I’d like to say what happened.’ I thought it was such a nice thing. Who knew this was going to be a big story?” He added: “She was more interested in getting that straightened out. Because she thought it was very unfair to Melania.” Mr. Trump said that he would not accept the resignation that she offered. But, asked if he would do anything differently in the future in the campaign for preventive measures, he pointed to other political plagiarism scandals, such as the one that sank Vice President Joseph R. Biden’s first presidential campaign in 1988. “I’ve been reading about this stuff all my life,” Mr. Trump said. “I mean it happens, it can happen.” Ms. McIver’s letter “cleared up everything,” he said, adding that “in retrospect,” as he considered the fallout, “the only thing is, if I did it a day earlier it would have been better.”