 A prominent donor to Jeb Bush pressed the chief strategist of the “super PAC” supporting Mr. Bush over the group’s negative ads about Senator Marco Rubio during a closed-door meeting in Manhattan on Friday, according to three people familiar with the encounter. The exchange took place between Barry Volpert of the private equity firm Crestview Partners and the strategist Mike Murphy at a meeting of about 35 donors at the Palace Hotel in Midtown, according to one attendee. Mr. Volpert, who has associates who support Mr. Rubio, the senator from Florida, questioned Mr. Murphy “aggressively” about why the group was airing negative ads about Mr. Rubio’s record, according to the attendee. Two other people briefed on the encounter corroborated the account. Mr. Volpert did not mention other candidates, only Mr. Rubio, although the group has also criticized other opponents of Mr. Bush in the Republican presidential primary, including Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Donald J. Trump. Mr. Volpert said he was concerned about the way in which the money he was giving to the super PAC was being spent, according to the person who witnessed the exchange. Mr. Murphy responded that the group had run many positive ads about Mr. Bush, and that now the race had reached the point that required contrasts. The exchange lasted a few minutes, and no one else raised concerns among the group, according to the attendee. In an email, a spokesman for Mr. Volpert, Jeffrey Taufield, said Saturday he would not comment “on the off-the-record meeting with Mike Murphy.” He added that Mr. Volpert “believes that Jeb is the best candidate for president and continues to support him strongly.” A spokesman for the super PAC, Right to Rise USA, did not immediately respond to emails seeking comment. Some donors to the group have questioned the decision to produce and air a 15-minute documentary telling the “the Jeb Bush story” on the New England Sports Network and have privately mocked billboards featuring quotes by Mr. Bush that Right to Rise paid for in Des Moines. Even Mr. Bush, on a swing through Iowa this week, seemed to question the billboards’ value. “What the hell is that?” Mr. Bush asked, driving past one of the large red billboards, according to a Des Moines Register reporter who was with him at the time. “Is that Right to Rise?” Super PACs, which can accept unlimited donations, are not permitted to coordinate with candidates’ own campaign staff. (Mr. Volpert does not work for the Bush campaign.) Asked by reporters in Iowa if he thought the group was spending its money wisely, Mr. Bush said, “I don’t know.” “I’m so busy I can’t follow all of that,” he said. “I hope they are. It’s a weird system where you’re, you know, you can’t have any coordination.”