 PINE BLUFF, Ark.— It was Hillary Clinton’s final event in the South before the string of contests on Super Tuesday that could set her on a surer path to the Democratic presidential nomination. But there was someone else on stage helping her here on Sunday night, in spirit, at least. Bill. Mrs. Clinton referenced her husband, Bill Clinton, by his first name only, in his home state, repeatedly. Rather than the usual biographical video that plays at Mrs. Clinton’s events, the former president from “a place called Hope” in Arkansas starred in a video that introduced Mrs. Clinton as a “change maker” who put the water crisis in Flint, Mich., on the map and helped children from the early years of her career. When Mrs. Clinton took the stage in the crowded atrium of an auditorium at the University of Arkansas-Pine Bluff, she repeatedly started sentences with “Bill…” a name that still goes a long way in this state where he served as governor before becoming the first Arkansan in the White House. “Back in the early 1990s when Bill got into the White House…” Mrs. Clinton said as she reminded the largely black audience that the precursor to President Obama’s Affordable Car Act was “Hillarycare,” her failed effort to overhaul the health care system. “You heard Bill talk about a program I brought to Arkansas…” she said, explaining an early childhood education program she put into effect as the first lady of this state. And, at a time in the campaign when parts of Mr. Clinton’s legacy, including the 1994 crime bill and an overhaul of the welfare system, have come under criticism from Senator Bernie Sanders and his supporters, Mrs. Clinton recited the economic successes of the Clinton Administration, including the 23 million new jobs created and the millions of Americans lifted out of poverty. The Republican candidates, she said are “selling the same snake oil: trickle down economics” that reversed Mr. Clinton’s economic achievements. “It’s really important to me that you all know, Arkansas runs deep in me,” Mrs. Clinton said. “I had 18 wonderful years in the state,” she continued. “I am so grateful and so proud to have Arkansas connections and I will do whatever I can as president to be a good partner to this state.” Mrs. Clinton holds a home state advantage against Mr. Sanders in the Democratic contest in Arkansas on Tuesday, but the state, where Democrats got trounced in the 2014 midterm elections despite Mr. Clinton’s best efforts, will almost surely be a Republican stronghold in the general election. Nevertheless, Mrs. Clinton used the opportunity in the final days before Super Tuesday to argue a Republican president would wreck the economy, dismantle Mr. Obama’s signature achievements, and make the country less safe — fighting words in a state where conservative radio dominates and Donald J. Trump has drawn enthusiastic crowds. “When the leading Republican candidate, in his long line of insulting all kinds of people,” Mrs. Clinton said, without explicitly mentioning Mr. Trump, “that makes the job harder.” “It’s not only offensive, it’s dangerous because we have to build bridges in order to get people to work with us to defeat ISIS and the other terrorist networks.” Earlier on Sunday, at a stop at a coffee shop in Nashville, Mrs. Clinton called Mr. Trump’s initial refusal to disavow the white supremacist David Duke “pathetic.” The Clintons maintain an apartment overlooking the Arkansas River on the top of the William J. Clinton Presidential Center in nearby Little Rock and Mr. Clinton in particular frequently visits to catch up with old friends, attend funerals, high school reunions and deliver speeches at his presidential library. “We want to keep our roots here,” Mrs. Clinton said. “I am looking forward to coming back to Arkansas,” she said. “And campaigning in the general election.” Bill will no doubt be here, too.