 Two leading Republican presidential candidates expressed divergent views on the Voting Rights Act on Thursday, setting up a split within a party that has been accused of seeking to suppress minority voter turnout in the name of combating fraud at the polls. Asked about the law at a forum in Des Moines, Mr. Bush said he was uncomfortable placing “regulations on top of states as though we’re living in 1960.” “There’s been dramatic improvement in access to voting,” he said, adding, “I don’t think there’s a role for the federal government in play in most places — there could be some — but in most places where they did have a constructive role in the ′60s.” He did not detail any changes he might prefer at the state level, but concerning the 1965 federal act, he said he did not support “reauthorizing it as is.” Most Republican candidates tend to agree with Mr. Bush, but Ben Carson, the retired neurosurgeon who is in second in most polls of Republican voters, did not. Saying that he wanted the Voting Rights Act to be protected, Mr. Carson told CNN: “Whether we still need it or not, whether we’ve outgrown the need for it, it’s questionable. Maybe we have. Maybe we haven’t. But I wouldn’t jeopardize it.” Mr. Carson, who is black, went on to say that if he were president, he would reauthorize the act and that he did not understand Mr. Bush’s rationale. States have had more freedom to change their election laws since the Supreme Court struck down a key part of the Voting Rights Act in 2013. Last year, Senator Rand Paul appeared to break with his party on the issue when he said: “Everybody’s gone completely crazy on this voter ID thing. I think it’s wrong for Republicans to go too crazy on this issue because it’s offending people.” However, he later tempered that sentiment by saying he understood the importance of voter identification requirements. On Thursday, Democrats accused Mr. Bush of trying to turn back the clock on voting rights. “Democrats believe that our nation and our democracy are stronger when more people participate, but Republicans continue to try to make voting harder instead of easier,” said Pratt Wiley, the Democratic National Committee’s director of voter protection. While the issue is a litmus test for Republican candidates, reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act will not come up in the next administration. In 2006, President George W. Bush signed a 25-year extension to the legislation. Alan Rappeport reported from New York, and Matt Flegenheimer from Des Moines.