 Ted Cruz is strongly contesting Donald J. Trump nationally, according to a new Quinnipiac University poll that shows the Texas senator essentially deadlocked with real estate mogul and front-runner in the race for the Republican presidential nomination. According to the survey of registered Republican voters, 28 percent support Mr. Trump, while 24 percent back Mr. Cruz. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points. Trailing Mr. Trump and Mr. Cruz are Senator Marco Rubio and Ben Carson at 12 percent and 10 percent. The rest of the pack is languishing in the single digits. The findings are a blow to the Trump campaign’s aura of invincibility after months of the billionaire developer’s dominating most national polls. Mr. Cruz has overtaken him in some Iowa polls, and he is starting to catch on nationally. A national Quinnipiac poll from this month showed Mr. Trump beating Mr. Cruz by a margin of 27 percent to 16 percent. Mr. Cruz has been eating into Mr. Trump’s base of support on several fronts, surpassing him with Tea Party voters and evangelicals and gaining on him among those who are not college-educated. The Texas senator also beats Mr. Trump with voters who say honesty is the most important characteristic in a candidate. “He’s chipped away at the bedrock of Trump followers,” Tim Malloy, assistant director of the Quinnipiac poll, said of Mr. Cruz. “This may be the first real eye-opener for the Trump people.” Last week’s Republican presidential debate appears to have helped Mr. Cruz, as 40 percent of Republicans who watched it said that he was the winner compared with 20 percent who thought Mr. Trump won. Mr. Trump has fended off challengers before. Mr. Carson overtook him in some polls before collapsing amid concerns about his foreign policy knowledge.  However, Mr. Cruz offers a different set of hurdles because of his legislative experience and his refusal to openly criticize Mr. Trump. Nationally, voters see both Mr. Cruz and Mr. Rubio as stronger challengers against Hillary Clinton in a general election. Both are tied with her, while Mrs. Clinton tops Mr. Trump, 47 percent to 40 percent. The poll also found that half of Americans would be embarrassed if Mr. Trump was their president.