 ORLANDO, Fla. — How would Ted Cruz feel about Vice President Carly Fiorina? “Let’s win the nomination first,” came the response — from Mrs. Fiorina. What did Mr. Cruz make of Donald J. Trump’s argument against holding future debates? “Well, listen,” the Texas senator began, at a news conference next to his new supporter. “I’m sorry, senator,” Mrs. Fiorina interjected, “I just have to say — ” She suggested that Mr. Trump was afraid to debate Mr. Cruz if the field thinned. She noted that Mr. Cruz had “never talked about spray tans or body parts, or hurled insults.” Then she lowered the boom: “Man up, Donald.” At her first campaign stop with Mr. Cruz since her surprise endorsement two days ago, Mrs. Fiorina on Friday made a few things clear: She does not intend to be an inconspicuous surrogate. She has not gotten rusty since ending her campaign a month ago. And she is perfectly positioned, particularly among Cruz supporters, to flourish again as an eager and prominent critic of Mr. Trump — reprising the role she forged as a candidate. For Mr. Cruz, the support comes at a critical time. He is increasingly, even urgently, framing the Republican primary as a two-man race, even if some rivals have failed to cooperate so far. “There are two candidates, effectively, in this race: Donald Trump and me,” Mr. Cruz said during a taped interview with Fox News at a church in Orlando, before a few hundred admirers. Mr. Cruz has not explicitly called on Senator Marco Rubio of Florida or Gov. John Kasich of Ohio to leave the race, but in the interview, he laughed when asked about a new gambit from the Rubio campaign: urging supporters to back Mr. Kasich in Ohio, in the interest of stopping Mr. Trump. “It’s the Washington establishment’s last gasp: ‘Let’s divide things up. Let’s play games,’” he said. “It’s real, real simple. How do you beat Donald Trump? You beat him. You beat him at the ballot box.” Mr. Cruz, widely reviled among establishment Republicans in the Senate and beyond, has begun to attract growing, if often, begrudging, support in recent days: On Thursday, Senator Mike Lee of Utah became the first Senate colleague to endorse Mr. Cruz. And on Friday, the conservative magazine National Review backed him. “Come on in, the water’s fine,” Mr. Cruz said to prospective defectors at his news conference. Mrs. Fiorina, who was at times critical of Mr. Cruz during her own campaign, has adapted quickly. She described Mr. Cruz’s reputation as a natural consequence of having challenged the status quo. “We’re known by the company we keep,” she told the crowd, after joining Mr. Cruz and the Fox host, Sean Hannity, onstage at the church. “He is known by the enemies he’s made. Good for him.” At one point, Mr. Hannity asked attendees for vice-presidential suggestions: Mrs. Fiorina’s name rang loudest, though Mr. Lee and Allen West, the former Florida congressman, were also mentioned. One child held a homemade “Cruz-Fiorina 2016” sign. After Mrs. Fiorina deflected on Mr. Cruz’s behalf, the senator did take care to call her “extraordinary.” And about an hour after the event, Mr. Cruz’s team sent a scheduling update: Mrs. Fiorina would be at an Italian restaurant in St. Charles, Mo., on Friday night, campaigning solo.