 Presidential politics have not been too friendly to the “Three Amigos” of the United States Senate. Senator John McCain of Arizona, former Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut and Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, whose hawkish foreign policy positions united them even as they butted heads with their respective parties, have all tried their hands at running for the White House with limited success, returning to toil away in the upper chamber. As Mr. Graham, the South Carolina Republican, dropped his bid on Monday, Mr. McCain blamed the bifurcated debate system for stifling his voice. Mr. Lieberman, a former independent and Democrat senator who failed to win the 2004 nomination after serving as Al Gore’s running mate in 2000, said his old friend would most likely return to his day job with greater influence. “I thought he actually made himself a more prominent and respected public figure in this campaign because he showed not only that he knows what he is talking about, but that he’s willing to say what he believes,” Mr. Lieberman said in an interview. “I think it gives him new stature when he returns to the Senate.” Lawmakers handle failed presidential bids in different ways. Mr. McCain gave it another shot after he fell short in 2000, and he won the Republican nomination in 2008. He went back to the Senate after losing in the general election. Senator John Kerry buried himself in his work after losing his 2004 presidential bid to George W. Bush and eventually emerged as President Obama’s secretary of state. As for Mr. Lieberman, he later became something of a thorn in the side of Democrats before he retired in 2012.  In the near term, Mr. Graham could carry some influence in this year’s nominating contest, particularly in his home state of South Carolina. He did not seem to be shying away from a kingmaker role on Monday. “To those in the Republican Party who want to win, check my plan out,” Mr. Graham told CNN. “Hillary, if you get to be president, I’ll help you where I can. I hope you’re not. But if you are, I’ll be there to help you win a war we can’t afford to lose.”