 Donald J. Trump is in position to sweep to victories in the Alabama and Oklahoma primaries on Tuesday, according to a new polls that show strong support from evangelical Christians potentially helping him win a big haul of delegates. Monmouth University’s polls of the two Super Tuesday states show 42 percent of likely Republican voters backing Mr. Trump in Alabama, with Senator Marco Rubio, Senator Ted Cruz and Ben Carson trailing with 19 percent, 16 percent and 11 percent, respectively. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points. If Mr. Trump wins more than 50 percent of the vote, he would take all of Alabama’s at-large delegates. Otherwise, they will be divided proportionally among candidates who win at least 20 percent of the vote. A similar outcome is in play in Oklahoma, where Mr. Trump has a smaller lead over Mr. Cruz. Mr. Trump has the support of 35 percent of likely Republican voters there, with Mr. Cruz in second place with 23 percent and the rest of the field stuck in single digits. A candidate must win at least 15 percent of the vote to secure delegates in Oklahoma. In both states, Mr. Trump is doing well with evangelical voters. He tops Mr. Rubio among evangelicals by a margin of 43 percent to 18 percent in Alabama, and he is deadlocked with Mr. Cruz in Oklahoma. The states are split on the Democratic side. Hillary Clinton holds a large lead over Senator Bernie Sanders in Alabama, with 71 percent of likely Democratic voters supporting her and 23 percent planning to back him. In Oklahoma, Mr. Sanders leads Mrs. Clinton by five percentage points, within the poll’s margin of error of plus or minus six percentage points. If those numbers hold, it would be a reversal from 2008, where Mrs. Clinton lost to Senator Barack Obama in Alabama, but won Oklahoma. This year, Mrs. Clinton’s strength in Alabama is fueled by her popularity with black voters, while Mr. Sanders’s appeal with white voters is keeping him afloat in Oklahoma. “The best chance for Sanders seems to be in places with largely white Democratic electorates,” said Patrick Murray, of the Monmouth University Polling Institute. “Unfortunately for him, the most delegate-rich Super Tuesday states have significant numbers of minority voters.”