 Killer Mike, a rapper and much-used surrogate for Bernie Sanders, ignited a controversy on Tuesday after he said that “a uterus doesn’t qualify you to be president” during an event hosted by the Vermont senator at Morehouse College in Atlanta. The Atlanta rapper, who has helped Mr. Sanders in his attempts to garner support from black voters, said that he was quoting from a recent conversation with a feminist as he pointedly attacked Hillary Clinton. While introducing Mr. Sanders to a crowd of 4,800 people, Killer Mike, whose real name is Michael Render, implied that Mrs. Clinton wanted to take a slower approach to fixing issues of racial inequality. “When people tell us, ‘Hold on, wait awhile.’ And that’s what the other Democrat is telling you,” Killer Mike said. “ ‘Hold on, Black Lives Matter. Just wait awhile.’ ‘Hold on, young people in this country, just wait awhile.’ And then, and then she — she get good, she have your own mama come to you. Your own mama say to you, ‘Well, you’re a woman.’ ” He continued, referring to an activist, “But I talked to Jane Elliott a few weeks ago, and Jane said, ‘Michael, a uterus doesn’t qualify you to be president of the United States. You have to be — you have to have policy that’s reflective of social justice.’ ” The rapper went on to say that paying women fair wages, treating minorities fairly, ending the war on drugs and making sure children could go to college counted as social justice. After the event, which was part of a tour of historically black colleges and universities by Mr. Sanders’s campaign, Killer Mike’s remarks set off a firestorm on Twitter, as some criticized him and others came to his defense. One person wrote, “Cmon mike this sexism isn’t cute.” Killer Mike quickly replied, “But I didn’t say that a progressive activist woman said to me.” A few minutes later, the rapper tweeted, “So Women are being told to not vote Hillary is sex betrayal &amp; Becuz another progressive woman says something disagreeing I’m sexist.” Killer Mike seemed to be referring to a supporter of Mrs. Clinton who was also criticized for comments about gender. Madeleine Albright, the first woman to serve as secretary of state, drew wide rebuke this month after she scolded women while introducing Mrs. Clinton at a rally in New Hampshire. “We can tell our story of how we climbed the ladder, and a lot of you younger women think it’s done,” Ms. Albright said of the broader fight for women’s equality. “It’s not done. There’s a special place in hell for women who don’t help each other!” Killer Mike has been one of Mr. Sanders’s most visible supporters after he conducted a six-part interview with the senator in December that was widely shared online, drawing more than a million views.