 Gov. Chris Christie’s is not getting much support for his presidential ambitions in his home state of New Jersey. A Rutgers-Eagleton poll released on Thursday showed that 5 percent of Republican voters in the Garden State would vote for him and two-thirds think he should get out the race. Leading the pack is Donald J. Trump, at 32 percent, followed by Ben Carson and Senator Marco Rubio, who are tied at 13 percent. “Christie no longer has any home-state advantage,” said Ashley Koning, assistant director of the Eagleton Center for Public Interest Polling at Rutgers University. “The voters who know him best blame not his competition but what Christie himself is doing – or not doing – for New Jersey.” The results mark a big falloff for Mr. Christie, who has seen his support in his home state cut in half since August. Mr. Christie’s blunt style seems to have been overshadowed by Mr. Trump’s presence in the race, and New Jersey voters have been complaining about their governor’s lack of presence or political impact in the state. “I don’t think he is working for New Jersey anymore,” one respondent said. Another suggested that his record offered him little to brag about: “New Jersey is not a success story, and people know it.” Mr. Christie has spent significant time away from New Jersey over the last two years. His obligations as chairman of the Republican Governors Association required extensive travel and now he is busy on the campaign trail. The governor has said that his cellphone keeps him connected to his staff members and obligations to the state, and that he has shown a willingness to return at a moment’s notice if needed. He also has suggested that his constituents are against his presidential bid because they don’t want to lose him. “They want me to stay,” Mr. Christie said on Fox News this year. “I’ve heard that from lots of people at town hall meetings. ‘Don’t leave to run for president because we want you to stay.'” Some would like him to make up his mind on what job he wants to do. An editorial in The Asbury Park Press last month said that Mr. Christie’s absence has hurt his job performance as governor. “Christie should face reality, and either get back to the job he was elected to do — and has failed to do for the better part of three years — or let someone else do the job for him,” the newspaper said. 