 NASHVILLE — Donald J. Trump plucked a mega-endorsement from across the Hudson River. Senator Marco Rubio established himself as the front-runner’s new chief tormentor, insulting Mr. Trump’s spelling and questioning his bladder control.  And somewhere well south of the race’s radar on Friday, Senator Ted Cruz had a Twitter dust-up with Dennis Rodman and held forth on federal water regulations at a faith-based skate park.  As Mr. Rubio and Mr. Trump exchanged blistering insults — amplified by Gov. Chris Christie’s endorsement of Mr. Trump — Mr. Cruz at times on Friday appeared to be an afterthought in the race. He repeated attacks against Mr. Trump’s long history of left-leaning positions. He warned that Mr. Christie’s endorsement was “no doubt troubling news for the Rubio campaign.” And he piggybacked on the attack Mr. Rubio had pursued more memorably  at the debate on Thursday, taking Mr. Trump to task over hiring foreign workers. “Go to a T.G.I. Fridays!” he said at a forum here, reminding a crowd of Mr. Trump’s suggestion that few American service workers wanted to work at his Florida club. “You don’t think people want to be waiters at some swanky hotel where people are going to tip with $100 bills?” (The club, Mar-a-Lago, actually discourages tipping; even so, hundreds of American workers applied for jobs there, The New York Times reported this week.) Mr. Cruz has staked his campaign on the so-called Super Tuesday states, betting that strong showings in his home state of Texas and across the South next week will place him well ahead of Mr. Rubio in delegates. At that point, he told voters on Friday, he can emerge as the only alternative to Mr. Trump.  “But we’ve got to get to a two-person race,” he said at the forum here. Still, he noted grimly that Mr. Trump had “enormous momentum” and could “easily be unstoppable” with another big night on Tuesday. Conservatives, he said, could not afford to take that chance. “Nobody has any idea what he would do as president,” Mr. Cruz said, “including Donald.” Speaking to reporters after the event, the Texas senator was asked if he feared the race was passing him by. Mr. Trump has swept three straight contests, after all, and Mr. Rubio is positioned as the party establishment’s choice to take him on. “I don’t doubt that the media will do everything they can to frame the race as anybody but the proven conservative,” Mr. Cruz said, growing a bit irritated. “But you know, to win the nomination, you actually have to win states.”