 Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont will meet with the heads of several civil rights organizations in Washington on Thursday morning, an effort that comes as he continues to court black voters ahead of Saturday’s Democratic caucuses in Nevada and the party’s Feb. 27 South Carolina primary.  Mr. Sanders will discuss race relations and issues affecting blacks in America with the Rev. Al Sharpton, president of the National Action Network, Cornell William Brooks, president of the N.A.A.C.P., Melanie L. Campbell, convener of the Black Women’s Roundtable Public Policy Network, and Marc H. Morial, the chief executive of the National Urban League, according to Rachel Noerdlinger, a spokeswoman for Mr. Sharpton. Ms. Noerdlinger said Mr. Sanders agreed to meet with these and other civil rights leaders last week when he talked with Mr. Sharpton in New York. “It’s important for Senator Sanders to share his platform on a range of issues with the heads of civil rights organizations because we are a large voting bloc and our issues should not be taken for granted,” Ms. Noerdlinger said. Ms. Noerdlinger said that she was heading to a similar meeting in New York that Hillary Clinton was having with the heads of civil rights organizations; Mrs. Clinton also plans to give a speech on race relations later in the day in Harlem, where she will talk about racism and overhauling the criminal justice system.  “As we near key primaries, it’s even more apparent how crucial it is to talk to key voting blocs,” Ms. Noerdlinger said. In recent weeks, Mr. Sanders has pushed to strengthen his support among black voters, a group that Mrs. Clinton is perceived to have an advantage with, particularly in southern states that hold primaries in the next few weeks.  On Tuesday, Mr. Sanders begins the day speaking to religious leaders at a prayer breakfast in South Carolina with the actor Danny Glover and the former N.A.A.C.P. president Benjamin T. Jealous, who have both endorsed him. Mr. Sanders will then host town-hall-style meetings at the University of South Carolina and at an auditorium in Charleston, S.C. He will also travel to Morehouse College in Atlanta as part of his campaign’s tour of predominantly black colleges and universities.