 Putting heft behind their calls for Donald J. Trump to release his income tax filings, Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz have now made public some details of their own taxes. But the disclosures on Saturday by the first-term senators turned out to be just simple summaries — the first two pages of their 1040 forms — leaving many of the specifics to the imagination, and perhaps blunting their efforts to draw a contrast with Mr. Trump’s lack of transparency. The forms posted by Mr. Rubio and Mr. Cruz essentially offer some basic totals for items such as adjusted gross income and taxes paid. What’s missing is the granular information about their investments, sources of income, domestic help and itemized deductions for such things as mortgages and charitable contributions. “The top two pages of the 1040s for any individual with multiple sources of income and investments are just a summary compilation of the actual information in all the schedules that lie underneath,” said Edward D. Kleinbard, a law professor at the University of Southern California and a former chief of staff of Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation. “A tax return that does not disclose the underlying information is a very incomplete disclosure.” He added, “Who knows what tax shelters these guys are investing in?” The campaigns, for their part, say they have provided enough information to strike a comparison with Mr. Trump, at least for now. Mr. Rubio’s spokesman, Alex Conant, said that the campaign’s release was consistent with what the senator provided during his 2010 Senate campaign. “We have not ruled out releasing additional information in the future, too,” Mr. Conant said. Mr. Cruz, who released complete federal returns during his 2012 Senate bid, said he had essentially followed Mr. Rubio’s lead this time around. “We just did it to match what the other candidates are doing,” Mr. Cruz told reporters in Little Rock, Ark., on Saturday night. “This is a competitive race. There needs to be transparency.” He continued: “And Donald Trump is refusing to hand over his returns. That is unprecedented in presidential politics.” The disclosure of income tax returns has long been a much-discussed issue in presidential campaigns, and it is often used as a political wedge by candidates during crucial moments. In January 2012, as Mitt Romney sought the Republican nomination for president, he released two years of returns, including schedules, for a combined 300 pages of financial details. During the general election, Mr. Romney was pressed to provide more detail amid questions over how much he had paid in taxes. That September, as Election Day neared, Mr. Romney released additional information. Last year, Jeb Bush looked to get out ahead of questions about his own income and taxes as he posted online a thick stack of 1040 forms dating to 1980, showing that he and his wife had an adjusted gross income of more than $28 million since he left the governor’s office at the start of 2007. As he made the information public, Mr. Bush bragged that he had put out some 1,150 pages, “more than any presidential candidate in history.” Some of the older returns had been previously released during Mr. Bush’s campaigns for governor. Last summer, Hillary Clinton made available eight years of filings, revealing that she and former President Bill Clinton had made $139 million in adjusted gross income from 2007 to 2014.  Mr. Rubio’s returns showed that he and his wife, Jeanette, earned an average adjusted gross income of $458,000 a year from 2010 to 2014. Based on other disclosures, that figure would include Mr. Rubio’s Senate salary of $174,000, proceeds of book deals, as well as income from Mr. Rubio’s part-time teaching job and Mrs. Rubio’s consulting work, which includes advising Norman Braman, a supporter of Mr. Rubio, on his charitable giving. Mr. Cruz and his wife, Heidi, a managing director at Goldman Sachs in Houston, reported adjusted gross income averaging about $1.25 million a year from 2011 to 2014. Their income includes his Senate salary, his wife’s income and earnings from a book deal. Both senators released the tax forms after Mr. Trump’s returns emerged as a campaign issue last week when Mr. Romney suggested that there might be a hidden “bombshell” in the businessman’s tax returns. Mr. Trump originally promised to disclose his taxes, but then, during Thursday’s debate, he said he could not do so while he was still being audited. He also said he believed he was targeted by the Internal Revenue Service because of his Christian beliefs. The I.R.S. said in a statement that it was precluded from discussing individuals’ tax matters, but that “nothing prevents individuals from sharing their own tax information.” Separate from their tax forms, candidates for president are required to file personal financial disclosure statements providing details of their assets and sources of income. Mr. Trump filed financial disclosures in July, releasing a 92-page statement that included extensive data on his business engagements and sources of income. The filing showed that Mr. Trump had earned at least $380 million in the previous 18 months.  How that income will ultimately square with the information on his personal income taxes, however, is unclear. Before Thursday’s debate, Mr. Trump hinted on Twitter that the income he reported on his tax forms might be less impressive than his stated net worth of $10 billion, or the numbers he reported on his financial disclosure last year. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 25, 2016  Those financial statements showed that about half of Mr. Trump’s income, roughly $200 million, was attributable to golf courses and resorts. About a quarter of his income was attributable to the sales of condominiums or rental fees. Matt Flegenheimer contributed reporting.