 CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa – Hillary Clinton on Sunday accused Charles E. Grassley, the senior Republican senator from Iowa, of trying to undermine her presidential campaign by leaking negative information about her tenure as secretary of state. She also criticized him for showing up at an Iowa rally for Donald J. Trump on Saturday “for the simple reason to defeat me.” Mr. Grassley, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, has been one of several Republicans investigating Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state. But his work also has a personal edge: He has been obtaining and sharing information about the inquiry by the department’s inspector general of the “special government employee” status of Huma Abedin, one of Mrs. Clinton’s closest aides. Ms. Abedin travels with Mrs. Clinton regularly and is a vice chairwoman of her campaign. Mrs. Clinton, appearing on “Meet the Press” on Sunday, brought up Mr. Grassley as she insisted she was not worried about the F.B.I.’s inquiry into the email server and the handling of classified information. She then noted that a House Republican leader boasted last fall that the Republican-led inquiry into the killings of State Department officials in Benghazi, Libya, had helped undermine her candidacy. “Now Senator Grassley shows up at a Trump rally yesterday in Iowa,” Mrs. Clinton said. “He’s the chairman of the Judiciary Committee who has, and his staff have, been behind and pushing a lot of these stories, and announces that he’s there for the simple reason to defeat me. I can’t control what the Republicans are doing, but I know what the facts are, and I will keep putting them out there.” Mr. Grassley, who is running for re-election this year, is a popular figure among Republicans and independents in Iowa, but many Democrats oppose him – and these are voters Mrs. Clinton is trying to attract in her tight race against Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont in the Iowa caucuses on Feb. 1. Mr. Grassley did not endorse Mr. Trump at the Saturday rally, and he focused most of his attention on criticizing President Obama. But he also drew applause when he mentioned Mrs. Clinton briefly. “We need a new commander in chief and that obviously is not Hillary,” Mr. Grassley said. A spokeswoman for Mr. Grassley did not immediately reply to a request for comment Sunday about Mrs. Clinton’s remarks. As she fielded questions on “Meet the Press,” Mrs. Clinton struck a mostly positive tone and avoided making any new attacks on Mr. Sanders. Asked if “déjà vu was happening” as Mr. Sanders inspires voters and emerges as a tough threat in Iowa, not unlike Barack Obama in their race in 2008, Mrs. Clinton did not convey a hint of worry. “No, there isn’t,” she replied. “I just have to tell you, I can only react to what I’m doing, feeling, getting responses from people. I feel great that we have the level of enthusiasm that we do, and we also have a really good team on the ground that has been working for months so it’s not just here today, gone tomorrow.” Mrs. Clinton also brushed off a question about why she thought banks like Goldman Sachs had paid her $250,000 and more for private speeches. When asked if these banks expected anything in return for the money, she said “absolutely not.” She said the banks simply wanted her perspective about the world after her four years as secretary of state. “People were interested in what I saw, what I thought, they asked questions about what was on their minds,” she said, adding that some financial industry executives are now helping pay for television commercials against her.  Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.