 Monday represents a significant 24 hours in the life of the 2016 presidential campaign. On the Democratic side, Hillary Clinton’s aides are expecting wins to increase her delegate count, but they are also bracing for losses that could keep the race marching forward.  On the Republican side, it is the final day for those praying for a shift in momentum in Florida that will stop Donald J. Trump.  The candidates are criss-crossing the states voting on Tuesday: Florida, Illinois, Missouri, North Carolina and Ohio. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas will keep to Illinois and North Carolina, where he hopes to amass enough delegates to stay in the race, while Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio is banging the drum in his home state of Ohio, where polls show him in a close race with Mr. Trump.  Senator Marco Rubio of Florida has wound down his race with increasingly pointed comments about Mr. Trump, suggesting this weekend that it could be hard to support him if he wins the nomination. The busy day follows an extraordinary weekend, which included Mr. Trump’s canceled rally in Chicago amid clashes between protesters and supporters; a protester who tried to rush the stage in Ohio the next day; and Mr. Trump’s unsubstantiated claim that the man was connected to the Islamic State.  Yet nothing has shaken Mr. Trump’s supporters over many months. His comments may make it harder to attract new Republican supporters as time wears on, but in a multicandidate race, he needs only to hold at his current level to win. That is particularly true in Florida and Ohio, which allocate their delegates in winner-take-alls. In 2010, Bill Clinton was mindful of the significance of a Democratic-held Senate and of Mr. Rubio’s potential as a future national candidate against Mrs. Clinton, and he agreed, after much prodding, to try to push a friend, Representative Kendrick B. Meek of Florida, a Democrat who had supported Mrs. Clinton in 2008, from the Senate race in Florida. The idea was to unite voters behind Charlie Crist, the former Republican governor who was running as an independent, so that he could overtake Mr. Rubio.  That all seems like a long time ago. Then again, so do the 1980s, a time that tripped up Mrs. Clinton over the weekend during Nancy Reagan’s funeral. Mrs. Clinton cast the Reagans as early advocates for H.I.V./AIDS patients, which was incorrect. Mrs. Clinton later apologized and said she misspoke, but many of her supporters were unhappy.  