 Yet another shake-up to Jeb Bush’s already beleaguered campaign Wednesday underscored the challenges Mr. Bush faces to revive his presidential bid just a month before the first votes are cast. The campaign announced Wednesday afternoon that it was pulling $3 million in television airtime it had reserved in Iowa and New Hampshire, which hold the first contests in early February. And in a conference call, Danny Diaz, Mr. Bush’s campaign manager, said that about 60 members of its staff, largely from the campaign’s Miami headquarters, would be re-deployed to help with persuasion and get-out-the-vote efforts in the early nominating states. The latest overhaul for Mr. Bush, who sits in single digits in the polls, underscores the tough choices his struggling campaign now faces. Many of his rivals eagerly seized on the news, privately wondering if his campaign — which has had a difficult time making its pitch to donors this quarter — could not afford the airtime it had previously reserved. The Bush campaign plans to rely on Right to Rise, the “super PAC” supporting him, to provide television support in these states. Shortly after the news broke, Paul Lindsay, a spokesman for the group, Tweeted that Right to Rise had already reserved $3.6 million in Iowa airtime leading up to the caucuses, on Feb. 1, and “will add more in the coming days.” The Des Moines Register first reported the news.  Shortly before the holidays, the campaign sent an email to staff members suggesting they pick up their winter clothes and hats while at home, likely the first signal to them that more changes were on the way. Twenty additional staff members will head to New Hampshire, where Mr. Bush needs a top finish, and where he already has five offices and 20 people on the ground. Iowa, South Carolina and New Hampshire will each get 10 additional workers. The Bush campaign said its decision to cancel $3 million in previously reserved television airtime — $1 million in Iowa and $2 million in New Hampshire — will allow it to focus its efforts on a robust ground game. Next week, Mr. Bush will renew his push in New Hampshire, spending Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday in the state. This is not the first shake-up for Mr. Bush, who in October was forced to announce across-the-board pay cuts, and slash some of its staff positions. The campaign also plans to tap the Bush alumni network — including those who worked for Mr. Bush’s father, President George H. W. Bush, and his older brother, President George W. Bush — to help on the ground in early states.  On Tuesday, Brian McCormack, a former staff member in George W. Bush’s administration, emailed fellow Bush alumni to encourage them to deploy to one of the first four voting states. “The political season is about to shift into high gear which means it’s time to make your plans to visit Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and/or Nevada,” read Mr. McCormack’s email pitch. “I’m joining friends in South Carolina next weekend and later will head north for the NH primary. But all four of the early states are important so pick one (or two) and help Jeb win.” Allie Brandenburger, a Bush spokeswoman, said in an email statement: “The campaign is building the best national ground game and infrastructure in the field, one that will allow us to be successful in the long run doing what serious, national campaigns must do to be competitive in the primary and general elections. “Today, given the fluid race and the spending decisions by outside groups, we are making strategic adjustments with our resources to ensure we are in the most competitive position possible. We are excited about the massive Jeb army that will be spreading his message to voters on the ground in the February states and beyond.”