 CLEVELAND — Donald J. Trump is officially the Republican presidential nominee  and tonight’s focus at the Republican National Convention — ostensibly, at least — was on jobs and the economy. The highlights: • Mr. Trump showed up — virtually, from New York, on a Jumbotron to unofficially accept the nomination at little after 9 p.m. But for him, it was both a bit of a wooden and constrained appearance. He watched on TV as his children helped put him over the top, he said, but gave little of substance, without mentioning Hillary Clinton. _____ • For a guy who was passed over for the vice-presidential nomination, and seemed to be kicked around by the Trump campaign at every turn, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey was the star of the second night. For about 15 minutes, he laid out one short indictment of Mrs. Clinton after another, asking after each, “Guilty or not guilty?” It was part red meat, part courtroom procedural, and with each query, “GUILTY!” resonated through the hall, interrupted only by an occasional “Lock her up!” (We fact-checked his remarks.) _____ • For several painful minutes, Paul Ryan, the House speaker, name-checked Mr. Trump, always linking him to Mike Pence, the Republican vice-presidential nominee, and he acknowledged, with some understatement, that “we Republicans have had our differences this year.” He focused on skewering Mrs. Clinton.  Fact Check: He said poverty has gotten worse during the almost eight years of the Obama administration. In fact, the poverty rate did increase in 2009, after he took office, largely as a result of the economic collapse of the previous year. It increased in 2009 to 14.3 percent from 13.2 percent — largely during George W. Bush’s presidency. It peaked under Obama at about 15 percent, but fell to about 14.5 percent last year, according to the Census Bureau. _____ • Ben Carson, the retired neurosurgeon who competed against Mr. Trump for the nomination, dismissed those who have said they would be willing to stomach a Clinton presidency to avoid Mr. Trump. “They’re not using their God-given brain to think about what they are saying,” he said. Rather, the election is not about Mr. Trump or any other politician, but about the people rising up “to take America back.” _____ • Tiffany Trump, Mr. Trump’s youngest daughter, talked about the “sweet notes” he wrote on her childhood report cards; the looks of surprise on her friends’ faces when they would meet the real, “considerate” Mr. Trump; and a call she once received from him after the death of someone close to her. “For me, the measure of a parent is based on how they support and bolster you when you’re down.,” she said. _____ • Mr. Trump’s eldest son and close adviser, Donald Trump Jr., echoed earlier speakers in warning of how liberal elites had steered the country off course. But he also balanced personal lessons from his father with Mr. Trump’s familiar populist rallying cries, declaring that his father’s hard-nosed, gritty ambition would put ordinary Americans back in control. _____ • Maybe it was the multiple shootings over the last several weeks. But there seemed to be a muted reception for Chris Cox, the executive director of the National Rifle Association, who warned that the right to own a gun will be threatened if Mrs. Clinton was elected. This earned him at least a modest response: “A Hillary Clinton Supreme Court means your right to own a firearm is gone,” Mr. Cox said. “Make no mistake, this election is not about the next four years. It’s about the next 40 years.”