 Senator Marco Rubio on Friday leveled the same kind of taunting, ridiculing insults against Donald J. Trump that Mr. Trump is so well-known for throwing at his rivals, reprising his feisty debate performance. He mocked Mr. Trump’s misspellings on Twitter. He made fun of his flop sweat. He even said Mr. Trump might have wet his pants.  “He called me Mr. Meltdown,” Mr. Rubio told a crowd in Dallas on Friday morning. “Let me tell you something,” he added, “he went backstage, he was having a meltdown.” The crowd roared in excitement.  Mr. Rubio described how during a commercial break, Mr. Trump kept applying makeup. “First, he had this little makeup thing applying, like makeup around his mustache, because he had one of those sweat mustaches.    Then, Mr. Rubio said, he asked for a full-length mirror. “I don’t know why,” he said, winding up to his punch line: “Maybe to make sure his pants weren’t wet.” Mr. Rubio also mischievously scrolled through some of Mr. Trump’s recent Twitter posts — “Let’s read some; you’ll have fun,” he said with a sly smile — then he proceeded to tick through how Mr. Trump had misspelled words like “lightweight” and “choker.” “Leightweight chocker Marco Rubio looks like a little boy on stage,” Mr. Rubio said, reading from one of the Twitter messages that Mr. Trump sent out after the debate. “He meant to say lightweight, but he spelled it L-E-I-G-H-T, so he got that wrong.” And if Mr. Trump wanted to make age an issue in the campaign, Mr. Rubio signaled he was happy to play along.  “It’s not that I look like a little boy,” he said. “I wouldn’t even be the youngest president.  But he would be the oldest president ever elected. And it’s like an eight-year term.” Mr. Trump, who later corrected the spelling in the Twitter post, is 69. “I only reach two conclusions,” said Mr. Rubio, 44, going in for the kill. “No. 1, that’s how they spell those words at the Wharton School of Business where he went.  Or No. 2, just like Trump Tower, he must have hired a foreign worker to do his own tweets.” Mr. Rubio’s shift in demeanor from the earlier days in the campaign, when he rarely went off script or off message, was striking. With Mr. Trump having won three consecutive contests — New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada — the Florida senator’s calculation is that he can no longer afford to be passive when he comes to Mr. Trump. And the best way to challenge him, Mr. Rubio has concluded, is to give Mr. Trump a taste of his own humor. 