 Mitt Romney’s political assault on Donald J. Trump on Thursday was so savage that historians strained to recall any precedent in American politics, with a major party’s former nominee blistering his party’s leading presidential candidate in such a personal and sweeping fashion. Al Smith, who in 1928 was the governor of New York and the Democratic presidential nominee, later turned on Franklin D. Roosevelt during the New Deal and warned, much as Mr. Romney did on Thursday, that Roosevelt’s liberal policies would lead toward totalitarianism. In a high-profile 1936 speech before the American Liberty League, an anti-New Deal group, Smith offered a “solemn warning” that Americans must realize “there can only be one capital – Washington or Moscow.” “There can only be one atmosphere of government, the clear, pure, fresh air of free America or the foul breath of communistic Russia,” Mr. Smith said.  “There can be only one flag, the Stars and Stripes, or the red flag of the godless union of the Soviet.” Suggesting, much like Mr. Romney did of Mr. Trump, that Roosevelt was tarnishing a great party, Mr. Smith said of the president’s administration: “It is all right with me if they want to disguise themselves as Norman Thomas or Karl Marx or Lenin, or any of the rest of that bunch, but what I won’t stand for is allowing them to march under the banner of Jefferson, Jackson or Cleveland.” But for all his scorn, Mr. Smith avoided harsh personal attacks in 1936 against Roosevelt, his successor as New York governor and the man who placed Mr. Smith;’s in nomination at the 1924 and 1928 Democratic presidential conventions. The closest comparison may be the sort of mean-spirited language Theodore Roosevelt used against William Howard Taft when the two Republicans and former friends ran against each other for president in 1912, a year that bought a party rupture some Republicans fear will happen again this year.  “There probably hasn’t been this level of personal invective by one Republican nominee against another leading candidate ever, perhaps not even in 1912 when T.R. went after Taft,” said David Greenberg, a historian at Rutgers University.   Theodore Roosevelt, running a third-party campaign to reclaim the White House, attacked his hand-picked successor, Taft, the Republican nominee, as “a fathead” and “a dimwit” who had “the brains of guinea pig.”  But, Mr. Greenberg added, “it’s harder to gauge because we’re living in different times now and the discourse is different.” “You would never see a four-letter word in the 1912 New York Times,” he said. Michael Beschloss, the presidential historian, said Mr. Romney’s indictment was substantially more far-reaching and vicious than any he could recall. “Mitt Romney’s multi-front attack on Donald Trump’s character, policies and career was far more eviscerating than earlier complaints against Presidential aspirants by earlier nominees of their party, such as Al Smith’s against Franklin Roosevelt when Roosevelt ran for reelection in 1936 and Harry Truman’s against John Kennedy two weeks before the 1960 Democratic convention,” said Mr. Beschloss. Before Democrats convened in Los Angeles in 1960 to determine their nominee, Truman, the most recent Democratic president at the time, delivered a speech in which he appealed to Kennedy, who was then just 43. “Senator, are you certain that you are quite ready for the country or that the country is ready for you in the role of president in January 1961?” asked Truman, adding: “May I urge you be patient?” Truman also indicated that he would not attend the convention because it looked like Kennedy supporters had made it a “prearranged affair.” But, as Mr. Beschloss noted, after Kennedy was nominated, Truman endorsed him and campaigned for him and the Democratic ticket that fall.     “Truman said that for him personally, a Democratic convention’s decision constituted ‘the law,’ and that he would abide by it,” Mr. Beschloss recalled.  “The vehemence of Romney’s speech suggests that he is not likely to follow Truman’s example.”