 BALLWIN, Mo. — A brief accounting of Senator Ted Cruz’s arguments against Donald J. Trump on Friday evening:   — He “affirmatively encourages violence.”   — He “disrespects the voters.”   — His campaign is “facing allegations of physical violence” against a reporter.   — He has created an environment that all but ensures future clashes.  And so, Mr. Cruz was asked on Saturday morning, can you still support Mr. Trump if he is the Republican nominee?  “My answer is the same: I committed at the outset,” Mr. Cruz told reporters, before a rally inside a high school gymnasium here. “I will support the Republican nominee, whoever it is.”  Standing beside him, Carly Fiorina, who endorsed Mr. Cruz this week, chimed in helpfully: “Cruz is going to be the nominee.” Mr. Cruz has trod carefully throughout the campaign in his treatment of Mr. Trump and his supporters. For months, he enveloped Mr. Trump in a “bear hug,” as he told donors in New York last year, taking care not to alienate voters who he hoped would defect in due time. After Mr. Trump began raising questions about Mr. Cruz’s eligibility for the presidency, citing his Canadian birth, Mr. Cruz began swinging back. Now, the skirmishes at a Trump rally in Chicago on Friday evening have placed Mr. Cruz in a precarious position. Late Friday, he delivered an impassioned rebuke of Mr. Trump for “creating an environment” where violence could fester. “When the candidate urges supporters to engage in physical violence, to punch people in the face, the predictable consequence of that is that it escalates,” Mr. Cruz said. “And today is unlikely to be the last such instance.” America, he said, is  “better than this,”  On Saturday, when asked again about Chicago, Mr. Cruz began by criticizing “protesters that resort to violence” in a bid to “silence speech that they don’t like.” He mentioned by name the Bernie Sanders campaign and the Black Lives Matter movement, saying they foster protests that “take speech into intimidation, into violence, into trying to silence anyone who might disagree with them.” But  Mr. Cruz also alluded to Mr. Trump, saying that “responsibility begins and ends at the top.” He appealed for “civility” and “our better angels.” Asked to square his remarks about Mr. Trump with his pledge to support him if he is the nominee, Mr. Cruz deflected, saying he could “understand people who are supporting Donald Trump” before laying out more reasons not to vote for him. “Donald Trump is Washington,” Mr. Cruz said. “Donald Trump is big business. He is the system. He has been supporting liberal Democratic politicians for 40 years.”  Asked again to explain the prospect of eventually supporting Mr. Trump anyway, Mr. Cruz walked away to begin his rally.