 Join us for New York primary live updates. A group backing Donald J. Trump has filmed an ad intended to air in New York during the primary that tells the story of his financing fliers to help the police capture a serial rapist on Manhattan’s East Side in the 1990s.  The spot, released by Great America PAC, is set to air nationally on cable networks, the group said.  In the ad, Detective John Baeza, who has retired from the New York Police Department, described working on the case of the so-called East Side Rapist, who targeted numerous women during the late 1990s.  In the ad, Mr. Baeza said that he had wanted to send fliers, costing between $10,000 and $40,000, but the city didn’t have the money to pay for them. Mr. Trump did, he says in the spot, as text reiterates that point on the screen.  “Donald Trump was definitely a leader who stepped up for the cops, the detectives and the women in the case,” Mr. Baeza said in the ad, which was produced by the group’s main strategist, Jesse Benton.  It was not immediately clear how the group came to find Mr. Baeza; Mr. Trump’s involvement in the mailers was not discussed publicly in news accounts at the time.  But Mr. Baeza was the head of security for Senator Rand Paul’s presidential campaign. Mr. Benton, who has close ties to the Paul family, worked on a super PAC supporting that campaign before it ended, and he and other former Paul acolytes shifted support to Mr. Trump. The ad appears to try to soften Mr. Trump’s image with women, at a time when his unfavorable ratings are quite high.  The spots are being purchased through DirectTV and Dish, instead of through stations, Mr. Benton said.   “Great America PAC is committed to supporting Mr. Trump in fresh and dynamic ways, so we are using a unique media plan to deliver our message to tens of millions of Americans across the country in a highly cost-effective manner,” he said of the unusual purchasing method.  Mr. Trump has disavowed “super PACs,” but the group supporting him has continued its work.