 Former Gov. Martin O’Malley of Maryland, who has argued most strenuously for more Democratic debates, is at risk of not qualifying for the next one under criteria laid out by NBC, the network hosting the Jan. 17 debate in South Carolina.  In a statement released on Friday, officials with NBC said that “to qualify, candidates must reach an average of 5 percent either nationally or in Iowa, New Hampshire or South Carolina in the five most recent polls recognized by NBC News” published before Jan. 14.  In only one state, Iowa, is Mr. O’Malley polling at an average of more than 5 percent, according to the Real Clear Politics average of polls. But NBC is not considering some of those Iowa polls in which he is doing well in its data used for qualifying for the debate. And in South Carolina and New Hampshire, as well as nationally, Mr. O’Malley is averaging below 5 percent, according to the Real Clear Politics averages.  If he fails to make the cut, NBC would be able to advertise the debate as a two-way contest (between Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders) — which might be better for ratings for an event being televised on Sunday, but it would be a huge blow to Mr. O’Malley two weeks before the Iowa caucuses.  In Iowa on Friday, Mr. O’Malley condemned NBC for the criteria it used to determine eligibility.  “They’re treating your presidential selection process as if it’s a another episode of ‘The Apprentice,'” he said.  Mr. O’Malley has structured his public criticism of the Democratic National Committee around the party’s decision to allow only six sanctioned debates, with candidates facing strict penalties if they take part in unsanctioned ones.  An NBC executive briefed on the debate criteria said after it was released that Mr. O’Malley would likely qualify, although they won’t be certain until the deadline. But the executive said the network would most likely round up his numbers if Mr. O’Malley moves to 4.5 percent in an average of Iowa polls. Luis Miranda, the communications director for the Democratic National Committee, said, “We expect all three of our major candidates onstage next Sunday in South Carolina.” 