 COUNCIL BLUFFS, Iowa — On Tuesday night, at the last event of a two-day stretch of events across Iowa, Hillary Clinton delivered her most direct closing argument yet as she approaches the final weeks of campaigning before the state’s Feb. 1 caucuses. After devoting most of her speech to broadly criticizing Republican policies, Mrs. Clinton shifted, delicately, to the Democratic caucuses. “Think hard about the people representing themselves to you,” she told the crowd of roughly 600 people at Iowa Western Community College here. “Their experience, their qualifications, their positions and particularly for those of us who are Democrats,” she added, “their electability and how we make sure we have a Democrat going back into that White House on Jan. 20, 2017.” Mrs. Clinton did not mention her main primary opponent, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who has drawn big crowds in Iowa, but her emphasis on electability seemed like an implicit reference. More than four out of five Iowa Democrats say they think Mrs. Clinton can win the general election, compared with only half who say they think the same of Mr. Sanders, according to a Quinnipiac poll released on Nov. 25. Earlier on Tuesday, at a town-hall meeting in Sioux City, Mrs. Clinton was asked what the key differences were between her and Mr. Sanders. “I think I have a broader, more comprehensive set of policies about everything, including taking on Wall Street,” she said. Mr. Sanders rolled out his Wall Street policies and criticized Mrs. Clinton’s ties to the financial sector on Tuesday in New York. Again, she implied that Mr. Sanders was not as prepared for the presidency. “I am a progressive who likes to get things done,” Mrs. Clinton said. “I will get into that White House, I don’t need a tour. I know right where the Oval Office is.”  A spokesman for Mr. Sanders pointed to a Dec. 22 Quinnipiac poll that showed the Vermont senator would fare better than Mrs. Clinton in a general election against the Republican Donald J. Trump. “That’s electability,” said the spokesman, Michael Briggs. The second part of Mrs. Clinton’s closing argument focused on her own family. “For me, it’s about my granddaughter and my next grandchild next summer,” she said. “Bill and I are going to do everything we can to help her have every opportunity in life, but that is not enough, my friends.” She continued, “It really matters what kind of country we have, what kind of world is out there waiting for our children and grandchildren, and I believe in the promise of America.” “I want to make it possible for every child, not just my granddaughter, to have the opportunity to live up to his or her God-given potential,” she said, capping off her most enthusiastic rally of the 48-hour tour. “That will be my mission.”