 In an effort to reach millions of Hispanic voters, Bernie Sanders’s campaign is running a five-minute Spanish-language ad on Univision that calls attention to the plight of a female farm worker in Florida. In the ad, the woman chokes back tears two minutes into telling her story, one that began with her saying “Voy a luchar mientras,” or “I will always fight.” But the ad then drifts into the hardships she faces, like the low wages she earns working the tomato fields of Immokalee, Fla. The ad is part of a “several hundred thousand dollar” advertising push that will run nationally on the Univision network, as well as on local Univision-affiliated stations in Miami, Orlando, Phoenix and Tucson. The effort is a nontraditional advertising strategy: creating a mini-documentary and buying a large, expensive block of advertising time. But the Sanders team, excited about its Thursday night placement in prime time (8:48 p.m.) on the network, is expecting the ad to reach millions. It will air just days before the March 15 Democratic primary in Florida. The Sanders campaign chose Univision because of its extensive reach and relationship with the Latino community, which might be more interested in the documentary-style advertisement than watching a traditional 30-second spot. It has also produced a separate, slightly longer version to share on social media. It tells the story of a visit Mr. Sanders made to the small town in 2008, where he discovered a “human tragedy,” as he described it, and worked to expose the harsh conditions in the area. But rather than Mr. Sanders recalling the episode, the ad centers around one character, a young Mexican immigrant named Udelia, who tells the story of her life as a farm worker in Immokalee, an unincorporated town in southwest Florida known for its tomato fields. The ad is similar to one the Sanders campaign released featuring Erica Garner, the daughter of Eric Garner, the man killed by police officers in Staten Island in 2014. In that spot, nearly the entire story is handed over to Mrs. Garner to tell her story. Mr. Sanders only becomes a part of the ad halfway through. Udelia, who narrates in Spanish with English subtitles, speaks as a mother, detailing the difficulties and abuses she and fellow workers faced in the tomato fields, saying they were denied water and bathroom breaks, endured physical abuse and were paid wages so low they were unable to afford food. “They don’t understand what we have to live through,” she says of the bosses in the fields, “because we have families.” The ad shows glimpses into her family life, with the children playing in a bedroom and waiting for a school bus. Three minutes into the five-minute ad, Mr. Sanders is finally heard from, giving a speech at the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials in 2015. He recalls what he found examining the farm workers’ plight, but it is Udelia who tells of Mr. Sanders’s actions to address the situation, including holding hearings. “I could buy small things for my children,” she says. “This changes a person.” The ad closes with a quotation from a 2014 article in The New York Times that found progress in workers rights in the area.