 BLOOMINGTON, Ill. — Donald J. Trump returned to Illinois on Sunday morning less than 48 hours after protesters and security concerns prompted him to call off a rally in Chicago. The audience at the airplane hangar where Mr. Trump spoke in Bloomington was far different, and friendlier, than the contentious scene on Friday. Mr. Trump told supporters that he felt bad for those who had waited hours to hear him speak in Chicago, but said the decision to call off that rally had been prudent because of a “massive crowd” that included many protesters. “They all showed up at the same time,” Mr. Trump told his audience in Bloomington, a city more than 100 miles southwest of Chicago that is predominantly white. “It was totally organized. Troublemakers, troublemakers.” A handful of protesters, including one who tore apart a campaign sign, also sought to disrupt Sunday’s rally, but with varied success. Mr. Trump ignored most of the demonstrators and urged his supporters to do the same, though he did say “get ‘em out of here” a few times. “We all want peace,” Mr. Trump said later in his speech. “We don’t want trouble.” The Bloomington rally, which comes ahead of the state’s primary election on Tuesday, was the first of three scheduled campaign stops for Mr. Trump on Sunday. His plane landed here several hours after supporters started lining up in the rain to hear him speak. Nerijus Meskauskas, who wore a “Make America Great Again!” baseball cap to the Bloomington event, said he had also attended the Chicago rally and was confronted by angry protesters. “It was clearly unsafe,” said Mr. Meskauskas, 22, who lives in the suburbs outside Chicago. Mr. Meskauskas said he planned to vote for Mr. Trump because “a lot of the stuff he says is the same stuff I say,” particularly on immigration. Before the rally, Cydney Williams, 54, of Bloomington, said immigration was also her “main issue,” and that she was attracted to Mr. Trump’s stance. Ms. Williams, who wore a star-spangled scarf and planned to vote for Mr. Trump, said Friday’s episode in Chicago had not affected her decision to attend the Bloomington rally. “I’m not here to pick a battle,” she said. Inside, Mr. Trump’s references to the border wall and trade deficits received some of the most enthusiastic applause from the large crowd. At one point, Mr. Trump brought a man to the stage who said he immigrated to America legally as a child and supported Mr. Trump.  Mr. Trump tied illegal immigration and trade deficits to the country’s economic problems, and made frequent reference to Illinois’s particularly dire fiscal situation. “You’re losing too fast,” Mr. Trump told the crowd, adding that “I’ll get it fixed.”