 MARSHALLTOWN, Iowa — Donald J. Trump on Tuesday night devoured another in the dwindling news cycles before the Iowa caucuses, as he excoriated a reporter for several minutes who was trying to ask him about his previous pro-abortion rights stance at a raucous news conference before a campaign event. Mr. Trump’s news conferences are fairly rare, despite his frequent presence on cable news and network shows, and this one was ostensibly to collect the endorsement of Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, Ariz., an anti-immigration hard-liner. Instead, it became a nearly 30-minute, freewheeling event in which Mr. Trump said he “probably” wouldn’t attend the final Republican presidential debate before the caucuses, on Thursday; indicated that he would talk to members of Congress before deporting people under his immigration plan; and denounced critics who questioned whether he had made promises to his high-profile endorsers. (After the news conference, an aide to Mr. Trump said that the decision had been made and that he was not going to attend the debate.) “We don’t make deals,” said Mr. Trump, the author of “The Art of the Deal,” who then said the only deal he wanted to make is for America. He conceded that if he did attend the debate, it could be notched as a flip-flop. And he smirked at a reporter who asked about Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska criticizing Mr. Trump’s past marital infidelity. “I appreciate the question,” he said. But the tensest moments came in an exchange with the NBC reporter Peter Alexander, who repeatedly tried to read Mr. Trump’s quotations from a 1999 interview with Tim Russert in which he described himself as “pro-choice.” That footage is being used in ads by a “super PAC” supporting Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, with whom Mr. Trump is closely competing, and by the Cruz campaign. Mr. Cruz, he said, is a “wreck.” Mr. Trump repeatedly cut off Mr. Alexander as he tried to read the quotation from the 1999 interview. “Excuse me, excuse me,” Mr. Trump said, talking over Mr. Alexander. Later, when Mr. Alexander tried to ask again, Mr. Trump demanded to know if the reporter would apologize. Mr. Alexander said that he was sorry the candidate felt he didn’t represent the statement correctly, but that he was trying to read it. “Forget you,” Mr. Trump said, cutting him off. It was reminiscent of the news conferences that another pugnacious New Yorker, Rudolph W. Giuliani, held when he was the city’s mayor. That exchange delayed for another day Mr. Trump’s being asked tough questions about his stand on abortion. He is trying to appeal to evangelical voters. Asked what he thought the punishment for a woman who has had an abortion should be, Mr. Trump said, “I don’t want to talk about that right now.” As for whether the so-called morning-after pill is a form of abortion, Mr. Trump said he would give an answer sometime in the future. Later, when another reporter asked why it was a cheap shot for Mr. Sasse to ask about his infidelity when Mr. Trump had raised Bill Clinton’s transgressions as fair game, the candidate replied that in fact it wasn’t a cheap shot. “I’m a religious person,” Mr. Trump then said.