 YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio — Bernie Sanders, campaigning at a feverish pace on Monday, made last-minute pitches to supporters on the eve of crucial primaries, holding five rallies in four states as he seized on his anti-trade message to rally people to turn out to vote on Tuesday. The Vermont senator began his day with an 11 a.m. rally in Youngstown, Ohio. He also planned events in Akron, Ohio, Charlotte, N.C., and St. Charles, Mo., before ending the day of nonstop campaigning with an evening rally in Chicago. Focused on winning as many Democratic convention delegates as possible and trying to deliver another surprise victory in the Midwest, Mr. Sanders continued to attack Hillary Clinton for supporting “disastrous” trade policies and cast her as part of the reason so many manufacturing jobs have been lost.  In Youngstown, Ohio, Mr. Sanders expressed confidence about Tuesday’s races as he told thousands of people that he needed them to come out in droves to support him. “In the last 10 months, we have won nine states, eight of them with double-digit victories,” Mr. Sanders said. “And nobody expected us to have won Michigan last week. Guess what? We won. And a few weeks ago people were saying Bernie Sanders winning Ohio? No way. But, guess what? We’ll have a good vote tomorrow. If people come out, we are going to win Ohio.” The senator, however, also stressed that his ability to win was closely connected with voter turnout. In a now familiar plea, Mr. Sanders told the crowd that if voter turnout was high he would win Ohio and other states, but if voter turnout was low, he would lose. He said corporations need to be pressured to stop making American workers compete with workers in other countries who make pennies an hour. “‘Our disastrous trade policies, NAFTA, CAFTA, permanent normal trade relations with China have cost this country millions of decent paying jobs,” Mr. Sanders said as the crowd booed. “In Ohio alone from 1994 to 2015, this state lost 300,000 manufacturing jobs, 31 percent of its factory jobs.” Mr. Sanders went on to argue that Mrs. Clinton had sided with businesses over everyday people.  “When it came down to whether to stand with corporate America, the people who wrote these agreements, or whether to stand with the working people of this country, I proudly stood with the workers,” Mr. Sanders said. “Secretary Clinton stood with the big money interests.” He also attacked Mrs. Clinton for being backed by “super PACs” and for taking campaign contributions from Wall Street, pharmaceutical companies, and the fossil fuel industry. The senator reminded the crowd that his campaign has collected campaign contributions from more than five million individual donors who have given an average of $27 each. The senator went on to repeat his demand for Mrs. Clinton to release the transcripts of her speeches to Wall Street. “If you get paid $225,000 for a speech, it must be an extraordinary speech,” Mr. Sanders said. “It must be mind blowing. It must be Shakespearean. It must reveal a lot, sources of knowledge. And I think if the speech is that great, it should be released to the American people.” 