 The rah-rah atmosphere at campaign events for Senator Bernie Sanders is often punctured, if only momentarily, by a sharp question from a voter asking him to explain his record on gun regulation and his vote affording special legal protection to the gun industry. It is a question that Hillary Clinton has worked hard to put into the Iowa ether. She has raised it in debates and on air, and her campaign has pressed it on the ground. And, judging from a piece of campaign literature the Sanders campaign has mailed to Iowa voters, it is a criticism that appears to be having some resonance a week before the caucuses.  “A Lifelong Advocate for Gun Safety,” reads the mailer, first reported by Politico. The back of the campaign literature goes on to list Mr. Sanders’s votes for gun regulation and his “D-” grade from the National Rifle Association. The Clinton campaign and its surrogates immediately jumped on the mailing as evidence of Mr. Sanders’s misrepresenting his record on gun regulation, an attack that cuts to the core of the authenticity that is the foundation of his political support. In a conference call with reporters, Dan Gross, president of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, which has endorsed Mrs. Clinton, said that in some ways, the fact that Mr. Sanders was feeling “compelled to misrepresent his record” was a positive sign that gun regulation was now a winning issue, and one in which it was “no longer politically expedient to pander” on. Mr. Gross went on to excoriate Mr. Sanders’s “disgraceful record” in which he five times voted against passage of the Brady Bill and instead supported “truly evil” legislation to protect gun manufacturers from litigation connected to the inappropriate sale of arms used in crimes. “A lot of real advocates out there find it offensive,” Mr. Gross said of Mr. Sanders calling himself a lifelong advocate. Asked on the call about Mrs. Clinton’s own evolution on an issue that she has not always vocally supported, Mr. Gross concluded that Mrs. Clinton sided with gun advocates when it “had really mattered.”   Shortly after the conference call, the Sanders campaign sent reporters an Associated Press article reporting that Mrs. Clinton had run little advertising in Iowa about her record on gun control. Jeff Weaver, Mr. Sanders’s campaign manager, said in a statement: “It’s no secret that Secretary Clinton has repeatedly changed her views on gun safety from one election to another. Now we see the Clinton campaign is gaming its message from one state to the other within the 2016 election.”