 SALEM, N.H. – Hours after a new poll gave Donald J. Trump a strong lead in the New Hampshire primary, Hillary Clinton arrived here to blast his proposed prohibition on Muslims entering the country and accuse other Republican presidential candidates of maligning Muslims in their own ways. While many of his Republican rivals have condemned Mr. Trump’s idea, candidates like Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida would keep out Syrian Muslim refugees, but take in Christians from that war-torn country, while Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey wouldn’t allow Syrian orphans into the nation. Mrs. Clinton has called for the United States to admit 65,000 Syrians and urged Americans to focus on defeating the Islamic State and other “radical jihadists” and not cast suspicions on Muslims. “Their language may be more veiled than Trump’s, but their ideas are not so different,” Mrs. Clinton contended about the other Republican candidates during a town hall meeting at a school gymnasium here. “They are all driving the same argument that jihadists are trying to advance – that we are at war not with barbarous jihadists but with an entire religion.” Mr. Bush, for one, reiterated his disgust with Mr. Trump during his own campaign swing through New Hampshire, arguing that “you’ve got to find the proper balance of believing in American values and being serious and real about keeping us safe.” But he also suggested that Mrs. Clinton would only benefit politically from the broad, bipartisan furor over the notion of barring Muslims. “I just don’t believe that Republicans are going to buy this language that guarantees that Hillary Clinton has a far better chance of winning,” Mr. Bush told reporters in Manchester. The latest CNN/WMUR poll published on Tuesday found that Mr. Trump had expanded his lead here, drawing support from 32 percent of likely Republican voters. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida had 14 percent, while Mr. Christie had 9 percent and Mr. Bush was at 8 percent. After beginning the town hall here by saying Mr. Trump is “trafficking in prejudice” and by criticizing the other Republicans, Mrs. Clinton pivoted to the economy and announced a new tax credit to help communities create manufacturing jobs after a major plant closure or round of layoffs. The proposal, which would come at a cost of several billion dollars, according to campaign aides, would provide tax relief for a variety of manufacturing-related goals — depending on what the cities and towns need most – such as long-term investments that might lead to new jobs and renovations and refurbishments of shuttered or outdated plant facilities. “This proposal can help us prevent the downward spiral that can happen after a major economic shift or layoffs,” Mrs. Clinton said. The hourlong town hall meeting drew questions for Mrs. Clinton about alleviating climate change, financing Social Security, and providing better health care and other support for veterans. She delivered familiar answers, but did so with an ease and confidence that underscored the relative lack of missteps or bad news for Mrs. Clinton and her campaign over the last two months.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.