 On Monday morning, the Republican presidential campaigns circulated a detailed letter they plan to send to the television networks, outlining their demands and questions before agreeing to any future debates — everything from the temperature in the debate hall (“below 67 degrees”) to no “lightning round.” And on Monday afternoon, Corey Lewandowski, the campaign manager for Donald J. Trump — who leads in many polls and whose sheer force of personality has helped the networks garner record ratings in the debates so far — said the Trump campaign planned to negotiate directly with the networks. “I haven’t even looked at the letter,” Mr. Lewandowski said in a phone interview. He added that while he’s not necessarily opposed to signing the letter, he believes that the Trump campaign — like all of the Republican campaigns —  “can negotiate on behalf of our interests directly.” “I think it’s incumbent on each of the campaigns to negotiate directly with the networks to ensure that what they want is being accomplished,” Mr. Lewandowski said.  For Mr. Trump, those goals include a debate that runs no more than two hours, including commercials, and opening and closing statements of at least 30-seconds. Unlike some of the other campaigns, which have pushed to include all 14 Republican candidates onstage at the same time (Ben Carson), or have urged for two roughly 90-minute prime-time debates of seven candidates each, chosen at random (Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana), Mr. Trump is not eager to add additional candidates to the debate stage. They could take away from his airtime and seek to boost their own standing by lobbing attacks at him. If Mr. Trump does not sign the letter — or even if he signs, but then negotiates directly with the networks on his own behalf — he would undercut the leverage that the Republican campaigns have in pressing the networks to meet their demands. After all, the campaigns’ power comes in their unity, and with so many campaigns pushing so many different goals, their official list of demands has so far been modest. Mr. Lewandowski pointed out that the Trump campaign has had success in negotiating with the networks. In his closing statement at the CNBC debate last week, Mr. Trump touched on that very theme, boasting that he had teamed up with Mr. Carson, a retired pediatric neurosurgeon, to lobby the network to keep the debate at two hours.  “These folks, CNBC, they had it down at three, three and a half hours,” Mr. Trump said. “We called Ben, he was with me 100 percent. We called in, we said, ‘That’s it. We’re not doing it.’ They lost a lot of money, everybody said it couldn’t be done. Everybody said it was going to be three hours, three and a half, including them, and in about two minutes I renegotiated it so we can get the hell out of here. Not bad.” In addition to Mr. Trump’s team, at least three other campaigns — New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, Carly Fiorina,  andOhio Gov. John Kasich — have confirmed they will not sign the letter. In an email to Ben Ginsberg, the Republican lawyer the campaigns brought in to help them negotiate with the networks, Mrs. Fiorina’s campaign, which did not send a representative to Sunday evening’s meeting, wrote: “We had dinner at the Applebee’s in Pella, Iowa instead.” “These debates are an important chance for voters to see conservative candidates under pressure and over time,” the letter continued. “We have consistently and successfully discussed our concerns with the networks and the voters–and not behind closed doors like the political class seems to like to do. We encourage each of the campaigns addressed here to do the same.”  The letter concluded by noting that the Fiorina campaign had encouraged the Republican National Committee to sanction debates with conservative hosts, like the Blaze and One America News, and ended with something of a zinger: “We do not care whether it’s 67 degrees or our green room isn’t as plush as another candidate.”  Similarly, on Fox News’s “Fox &amp; Friends” Monday morning, Mr. Christie made clear he was sick of his party’s debate frustrations. “Stop complaining,” the New Jersey governor said. “Do me a favor, set up a stage, put podiums up there and let’s just go. Ok?”