 Updated, 1:25 p.m. | NEWTON, Iowa — Donald J. Trump’s remarks Thursday that he would “absolutely” institute mandatory registration of Muslims drew broad condemnation from Democrats Friday and several of his Republican rivals even as some candidates have moved further to the right on national security in the wake of the Paris terror attacks. Mr. Trump was asked about the issue by an NBC News reporter and pressed on whether all Muslims in the country would be forced to register. “They have to be,” he said. “They have to be.’’ When asked how a system of registering Muslims would be carried out — whether, for instance, mosques would be where people could register — Mr. Trump said: “Different places. You sign up at different places. But it’s all about management. Our country has no management.’’ Asked later, as he signed autographs, how such a database would be different from Jews having to register in Nazi Germany, Mr. Trump repeatedly said, “You tell me,” until he stopped responding to the question. The remarks, which were made public on Thursday night, took hours to penetrate over social media. But by Friday morning, Democrats were calling him out.  In a Twitter post linking to an article about the remarks, Hillary Rodham Clinton wrote, “This is shocking rhetoric. It should be denounced by all seeking to lead this country.” The post was signed with an “H,” signaling that the candidate, and not her staff members, had written it.  — Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) November 20, 2015  Martin O’Malley, a Democrat running against Mrs. Clinton, also denounced Mr. Trump, saying, “How is that at all American?”  And Senator Bernie Sanders called it “an outrageous and bigoted statement,” adding, “We will not destroy ISIS by undermining the Constitution and our religious freedoms.” Since June, when he entered the race, Mr. Trump has tethered the issue of illegal immigration and border security to a more immediate safety threat within the United States. His rhetoric has helped pull further to the right a Republican party that already saw immigration play a big role in its races in the 2014 midterm elections.  And since he resides at the top of the polls, the rest of the party finds itself forced to respond to what he says.  On Friday afternoon, Mr. Trump’s campaign appeared to pull back from his controversial remarks.  As the candidate sat for a policy discussion with a moderator in front of about 4,000 people in a gym at Wofford college in Spartanburg, S.C., his campaign manager stood in the back of the room explaining how the media had misconstrued Mr. Trump’s remarks. “Ask yourself what he said,” Corey Lewandowski the campaign manager, said. He insisted that Mr. Trump had been asked “leading questions” by a Yahoo News reporter and then “didn’t hear” the questions about registering Muslims subsequently shouted at him on a rope line by an NBC reporter. But Mr. Trump did not talk about a watch list, or any other database for Muslims, in front of the crowd. Supporters of Mr. Trump were quick to email reporters pointing out that he was responding to questions from reporters, not laying out a grand-scale plan of his own. Still, he drew heat for the remarks from fellow Republicans alarmed by the comments.  “The idea of a national database that tracks people just because of their religion is beyond ludicrous,” said Jennifer Horn, the chairwoman of the New Hampshire Republican Party, saying that concerns about radical jihadists are legitimate but requiring wholesale registrations of a religious group is “un-American.” She would not forecast whether the remarks would cost Mr. Trump in her state, where border security was a dominant theme in the 2014 Senate contest between the Republican Scott Brown and Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, the incumbent.  But she added, “All I would say about that is here in New Hampshire, voters are looking for candidates with depth of knowledge and experience. Typically in New Hampshire, shallow campaigns that lack that depth do not win.”  Mr. Trump’s Republican rivals, who have been focused, in large measure, on a muscular response to the attacks in Paris last week, were more muted in reacting, but still criticized the approach.  Former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, who on CNBC, in response to Mr. Trump, said, “You talk about closing mosques, you talk about registering people — that’s just wrong.” The candidate who is currently seen as best positioned to absorb Mr. Trump’s supporters should they leave him, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, made a notable departure from what Mr. Trump said, remarking that he is “a big fan of Donald Trump’s, but I’m not a fan of government registries.” For conservatives and evangelical voters, the combination of more government involvement in people’s lives and a sweeping religious classification could prove troublesome — a fact that Mr. Cruz, who is trying to appeal to Iowa’s religious voters, seemed keenly aware of. Mr. Cruz accused the media of trying to divide the Republican party, even as he seemed to disagree with Mr. Trump. “I recognize that the media would love to get me and other candidates to attack Donald Trump,” Mr. Cruz said before an event in Sioux City, Iowa. “There may be other candidates who want to do that. I ain’t gonna do it.” In an email, a spokesman for Senator Rand Paul, a vocal proponent of protecting privacy, said the Kentucky legislator is opposed to a government registry. The latest remark from Mr. Trump signified the enormous risk his words pose for a party whose leaders in Washington are focused on trying to reach to an emerging electorate of minority voters, but whose conservative base largely is against efforts to reform the immigration system in ways that would make it easier for people without legal status to remain in the country.  Both Mr. Trump and Ben Carson, the top two Republican presidential candidates in most polls, have made sharply provocative remarks about Muslim refugees from Syria and Iraq, and have been criticized by Muslim groups in the United States. On Thursday, Mr. Carson seemed to equate refugees’ seeking entrance to the United States to “a rabid dog running around your neighborhood.’’ Both Mr. Carson’s and Mr. Trump’s remarks came the day the House voted to severely restrict the flow of Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the United States, amid security concerns after the terrorist assaults in Paris. In recent days, Mr. Trump has also spoken critically of Bill de Blasio, the New York City mayor, for ending a covert police department program of monitoring mosques that existed when Michael R. Bloomberg was mayor. And while he had previously discussed the possibility of registering Muslim-Americans, his remarks Thursday night were his most definitive in support of it. Matt Flegenheimer contributed reporting from Sioux City, Iowa, and Jason Horotwitz contributed reporting from Spartanburg, S.C.