 Updated, 11:09 a.m. | Senator Marco Rubio, who is placing only as high as third in most state and national polls, has been the target of more attack ads than any other candidate — more than $20 million worth since the first week in December, a huge sum that may help explain why the Florida senator is struggling to gain ground on his rivals for the Republican nomination. In all, groups supporting other candidates have spent $22 million on advertising against Mr. Rubio, according to figures provided by his campaign. Of that, $20 million has come from the “super PAC” backing former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, Right to Rise. The rest is from allies of Senator Ted Cruz of Texas. That would account for about a third of the Right to Rise advertising budget so far.  Broken down by state, $8.5 million has been spent attacking him in Iowa, $7.5 million in New Hampshire and $2.7 million in South Carolina. The remainder has been spent on national cable television — mainly Fox News. The content and theme of the attacks are varied. First, Mr. Bush’s allies painted Mr. Rubio, a first-term senator, as an overeager opportunist seeking a promotion while he was shirking his responsibilities in the Senate. They have started portraying him more recently as a flip-flopper, most harshly in an ad that shows a cartoon of Mr. Rubio superimposed over a weather vane. The spot accuses him of switching his position on immigration legislation for political purposes. There are some signs the attacks are starting to stick. In New Hampshire, where Right to Rise has put $2 million behind the weather-vane ad alone, Mr. Rubio has dropped 4 percentage points since December, according to the latest CNN/WMUR poll. (That is within the poll’s five-point margin of error.) But Mr. Rubio is still seen unfavorably by a relatively small slice of Republican voters in New Hampshire — 32 percent — the poll found. By contrast, 51 percent said they had an unfavorable view of Mr. Bush. Right to Rise said it plans to keep up the attacks on Mr. Rubio. “Our only regret is that there’s only 31 days in January,” said a spokesman for the group, Paul Lindsay. “There’s simply too much information that we think is important to share with voters.”