 MESA, Ariz. — The Boeing 757-200 taxied outside a private airport hangar here on Wednesday to thunderous cheers, as well as boisterous chants of “We love you, Mr. Trump” by three men in cowboy hats. The hangar’s owners had lent the space to Donald J. Trump, the billionaire running for president, an easy in-and-out arrangement the day after the last Republican debate of the year, in Las Vegas, a short flight away. From a raised lectern framed by huge American flags, Mr. Trump talked about cutting taxes and boosting employment. He praised himself and picked on one of his rivals (“Poor Jeb,” he said, zeroing in on Jeb Bush, payback for his criticism of Mr. Trump during the debate). He extolled his plan to build a “Trump wall” along the Mexican border — so strong “that people can’t kick through it” and so high that “if you get up there, man, there’s no way to get down,” he said. It is also going to be “a beautiful wall,” he pledged, “because someday they’ll name it after me.” The audience erupted. A woman in pink knee-high boots pumped her fist in the air and screamed, “Yes! Yes!” Sandi Forslun, 60, who lives in neighboring Gilbert, said, “This is exactly why I came here for.” She was hardly alone. Among the thousands who had assembled in the hangar for the rally — 15,000 by Mr. Trump’s estimate, or the official police estimate of 5,000 — securing the border ranked as a key priority. They did not appear as concerned about deterring unauthorized migrants from Mexico, as had been the case for years.  Brenda Mai, 66, who splits her year between Garrison, N.D., and Apache Junction, an eastern Phoenix exurb that is popular among snowbirds, said Muslims were “spreading all over — they’re infiltrating every state.” It was Mr. Trump’s second visit to Arizona as a Republican presidential candidate and his first since calling for a “total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States.” The declaration endeared him to a slice of the Republican electorate that sees one of his rivals, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, as too liberal, and another, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, as too nice. “I’ve got a family, three kids, and Trump is the only one I think will do what he says, which is to keep us safe,” Ryan Kunz, 32, a small-business owner from Gilbert, said as he stood in a long line waiting to get in. Behind Mr. Kunz, Tom Yardley, 48, who lives in San Tan Valley, southeast of Phoenix, said: “Trump says what he thinks, he speaks what other people think and you know what? He’s right on everything he’s said about immigration,” a theme that has for long defined the politics of this state. Although independents make up the plurality of voters in Arizona, Republicans have maintained a tight hold on state politics for years, controlling both chambers of the State Legislature and every statewide office. Historically, Republican voters register the highest turnout rate, and independents the lowest. The state’s primary is March 22. A poll of Republican presidential contenders in October had Mr. Trump and Ben Carson neck-and-neck in the state. After the attacks in Paris last month, Gov. Doug Ducey, a Republican, called for “an immediate halt in the placement of any refugees” from countries such as Iraq, Syria and Somalia in Arizona; the state received about 4 percent of all the refugees resettled in the United States last year. With his call, Mr. Ducey shifted the focus of the immigration debate from Latin America to Africa and the Middle East.  Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, who warmed up the crowd like he did at Mr. Trump’s last rally in the state, in July, reinforced the point on Wednesday, listing the nationalities of inmates from his jails who had been turned over to immigration authorities in recent months — three from Sudan and one from Syria — without offering any context on their cases or an explanation for his actions. Still, the sheriff said, “when you deal with terrorism, you never surrender, you never compromise, and that’s what Donald Trump is talking about.” The crowd erupted in chants of “Trump, Trump, Trump.”