 In other election cycles Jim Webb might have been a force to be reckoned with in the Democratic presidential field, with his military credentials, crossover appeal and ability to connect with working-class voters. This year, however, Mr. Webb’s campaign drew little notice from the beginning and faded out with a soft fizzle in the face of Hillary Rodham Clinton’s star power and the grassroots support behind Senator Bernie Sanders. The Announcement: Skipping the festivity of a majestic speech or a grand rally, Mr. Webb kicked off his campaign in early July, just before a holiday weekend, with little warning or fanfare. He posted an essay on a campaign website bemoaning the influence of big money in politics and said that he was ready to report for duty: “Our fellow Americans need proven, experienced leadership that can be trusted to move us forward from a new president’s first days in office.” On the trail: Mr. Webb was not the ubiquitous presence that some of his rivals have been on the campaign trail, but he did venture to Iowa for the state fair in August and made his case that moderate Democratic values were the ones needed to move the country forward. “It’s fun to walk around and catch the mood,” he told a reporter for The Des Moines Register. An insurgent candidacy: After weeks of lying low, Mr. Webb began to face questions in September about how serious he was about running for office. He turned to Facebook to make the case that he was in it to win it, and to ask for money: “The time is finally right for our under-financed insurgent campaign to be taken seriously.” The not-so-great debate: Mr. Webb spoke for just 15 minutes of two-hour Democratic debate in mid-October and spent much of that time complaining about not getting enough time to talk. Later in the week, the former senator from Virginia vented his frustration, saying the event was “rigged” against him. On Saturday Night Live, Alec Baldwin portrayed him as an angry hothead. The money: Barely registering in most polls, Mr. Webb’s campaign had raised less than $700,000 in the third quarter, leaving him with little cash to fight on. The exit: Mr. Webb said that he was going to spend time talking to people about a possible independent bid, but said that it was clear he had no path forward as a Democrat: “I am stepping aside from the Democratic primary process.” 