 In the week before Tuesday’s debate in Las Vegas, when reporters asked Jeb Bush how he planned to regain control of the narrative in the presidential race, Mr. Bush quipped, “Not answer any more questions about Donald Trump.” What a difference a week makes.   On a private conference call with top donors immediately after the debate, Mr. Bush’s team highlighted what had been the former Florida governor’s strategy all evening — to repeatedly go after Donald J. Trump, rattling the real estate mogul and, in the process, to cast himself as the serious candidate best prepared to serve as commander in chief.  Referring to Mr. Trump’s call to bar all Muslims from entering the country, Tim Miller, the campaign’s communications director, said, “Every candidate had the opportunity to stand up and say that was wrong and say that he was not serious and not ready to be commander in chief, and every one of them took a pass tonight to do that, except for Jeb Bush.” It was a strategy Mr. Bush had begun to preview in public events, calling Mr. Trump “unhinged” on Twitter after his Muslim comments and repeatedly describing him as an insufficiently serious candidate and leader, and one his campaign hopes to build on going forward. — Jeb Bush (@JebBush) December 7, 2015  “And so I think that’s something we can be proud of Jeb for, but also something that we can really take to the marketplace in the coming weeks as he’s the one that’s standing up to Trump on this and the one that’s standing up for the party and the country,” Mr. Miller said on the call. Mr. Bush still faces a challenging landscape. His poll numbers remain stubbornly in the single digits, and his donors — while loyal — have been frustrated that he has not proved a more agile campaigner.  But now the campaign is on the offensive. In the wake of Mr. Trump’s Muslim comments, the Bush campaign had begun doing what one aide described as “due diligence” to see what it might take for him to break the Republican National Committee pledge to support the eventual nominee, if that nominee is Mr. Trump. (Mr. Bush, especially, had seemed to squirm on the campaign trail when repeatedly pressed if he would support Mr. Trump if he were to become the Republican nominee) And after the debate, in an interview with CNN’s Jake Tapper, Mr. Bush again cast himself as the only Republican willing to stand up to Mr. Trump. “I think tonight was a good example of why he may not be the proper guy to be commander in chief,” Mr. Bush said. “Sometimes you have to take a stand.” On the call, the campaign noted that it had seen its highest web traffic to Mr. Bush’s website, its highest number of email sign-ups, and its largest number of website donations than in any previous debate. Jack Oliver, a veteran fund-raiser, also urged fellow supporters on the call to use Wednesday to call their two or three friends who had been reluctant to commit to Mr. Bush so far. “Tomorrow morning, I challenge you to wake up, make those two telephone calls, make those three telephone calls,” Mr. Oliver said. “Jeb made you proud tonight. You can easily make those calls and go after those people who have been sitting on the sidelines and confidently say, ‘Tonight we saw a president on the stage.’”