 WAUKESHA, Wis. — Gov. John Kasich ridiculed Donald J. Trump’s knowledge of foreign policy on Tuesday, offering unusually acidic words in the wake of last week’s terrorist attacks in Brussels. Expanding on his contention that neither Mr. Trump nor Senator Ted Cruz of Texas can win in November, Mr. Kasich also warned that the Republican presidential nominee  could make it harder for the party to win House and Senate races. Mr. Kasich has tried varying approaches in an effort to stand out in the Republican race. He has boasted about eschewing attacks on his opponents, making his positivity a defining trait of his campaign. But since the Brussels attacks, he has offered pointed criticism of his rivals’ views on national security.  Campaigning in Wisconsin this week ahead of the primary next Tuesday, Mr. Kasich, of Ohio, has taken aim at Mr. Trump’s call to temporarily bar Muslims from entering the country, as well as Mr. Cruz’s support for patrolling Muslim neighborhoods, arguing that both ideas were foolish. He was particularly blunt on Tuesday when asked about Mr. Trump’s recent comments on foreign policy, including in an interview with The New York Times. Among other things, Mr. Trump said that he would be open to allowing Japan and South Korea to build their own nuclear arsenals and that he might cut off purchases of oil from Saudi Arabia. “I think that’s like the most ridiculous outlined foreign policy I’ve ever heard,” Mr. Kasich said, laughing, on the Fox News Radio program “Kilmeade and Friends.” Mr. Trump, he added,  “doesn’t understand foreign policy.”  Speaking to reporters after a town-hall-style event later on Tuesday, Mr. Kasich warned that the party’s choice of a presidential candidate could have grave consequences for other Republican candidates on the ballot this fall.  Naming two senators facing tough re-election battles, he raised the specter of Republicans losing control of the Senate and suffering “major losses” in the House. “Let me tell you, it’s not just the presidency that’s at stake,” Mr. Kasich said. “If we nominate somebody that can’t win in the fall, your senator here is at risk — Ron Johnson’s at risk. Kelly Ayotte is at risk.” He suggested that he could spare them such danger. “I’m like the guy standing up for the Republican Party,” he said.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.