 Right to Rise, the “super PAC” supporting former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, is preparing a nearly $17 million television ad buy aimed at the so-called S.E.C. Primary on March 1, aides to the group confirmed. The latest series of ad reservations, set to air in eight March primary states, will bring the super PAC’s advertising total to $56 million — more than any other individual campaign or outside group. The latest buy underscores the prevailing strategy — and thinking — of the Bush campaign and the group supporting him: that Mr. Bush, who has stumbled repeatedly as a candidate, nonetheless has a built-in advantage in the more than $100 million his super PAC has raised.  It also, his team hopes, will provide him with some cushion in the first four primary states, where he is fending off challenges from everyone from Senator Ted Cruz of Texas (in Iowa) to Gov. John Kasich of Ohio (in New Hampshire) to Senator Marco Rubio of Florida (in South Carolina). “You should always be wary of generals who want to win the last war,” said Mike Murphy, a senior strategist to Right to Rise. “We’re putting a big emphasis on New Hampshire, but we’re not playing by the old rules of waiting to get through one state before we move to the next. March is going to be an expensive month for every campaign or super PAC that wants to compete for this nomination, and we’re prepared for it.”  Yet the 2016 cycle has showcased both the increased power — as well as the limitations — of super PACs and outside groups. Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, for instance, dropped out of the Republican race in September, despite the fact that his super PAC had just started a $17 million advertising spree. So far, Right to Rise has run positive ads aimed at introducing Mr. Bush and his record as the governor of Florida to voters, but it has not ruled out going negative in contrast spots with other candidates.  The initial $16.8 million in reservations, which could change, is currently set to begin in early February, and run through the March 1 primary. The group will air ads in seven primary states (in sports vernacular, many involve Southeastern Conference college teams in some of these states) — Georgia ($2.6 million), Massachusetts ($630,000), Oklahoma ($550,000), Tennessee ($1.7 million), Texas ($6.1 million), Vermont ($60,000) and Virginia ($3.1 million)  — as well as Michigan ($2.1 million), which holds its primary on March 8.