 DES MOINES — Little daylight sits between Donald J. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas in Iowa, according to a new poll that shows the two presidential candidates essentially deadlocked less than a week before Republicans head to the caucuses. A survey by Quinnipiac University in Connecticut found that 31 percent of likely Republican caucusgoers support Mr. Trump, while 29 percent back Mr. Cruz. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points. “One thing is increasingly evident, the conservative wing of the Republican Party, at least in Iowa, is carrying the day,” said Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the Quinnipiac poll. Trailing Mr. Trump and Mr. Cruz, in a distant third place, is Senator Marco Rubio of Florida at 13 percent. The rest of the pack remains mired in the single digits. The tight race at the top of the field comes as Mr. Trump and Mr. Cruz have dropped any pretense of pleasantness and have been sharply attacking each other in recent weeks. Mr. Trump has raised questions about Mr. Cruz’s Wall Street connections and his eligibility to be president because of his Canadian roots. Mr. Cruz has accused Mr. Trump of changing his liberal positions to sell Republican voters on his candidacy. Several polls in the last week have shown Mr. Trump opening a lead over Mr. Cruz in Iowa, but Tuesday’s poll indicates that the state remains up for grabs. According to Quinnipiac, Mr. Cruz is the favorite of Tea Party Republicans, evangelical Christians and voters who consider themselves to be “very conservative.” Mr. Trump is winning with Iowans who say they are “somewhat conservative,” moderate or liberal. The closeness of the race suggests that the outcome could be determined by the ground games of the campaigns and the ability to get new voters to caucus on Feb. 1. “It all comes down to turnout,” Mr. Brown said, noting that 40 percent of likely caucus participants say they still might change their minds. “This is an especially volatile race.”
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.