 Updated, 1:17 p.m. | Donald J. Trump said it was “disgraceful” that Pope Francis questioned his faith on Thursday and suggested that his presidency would be the answer to the Vatican’s prayers because he would protect it from terrorists if elected. As he returned to Rome after his six-day visit to Mexico, Francis said, “A person who thinks only about building walls, wherever they may be, and not building bridges, is not Christian,” in response to a question about Mr. Trump aboard the papal airliner.  Mr. Trump condemned that remark during a campaign rally in South Carolina, describing himself as a good Christian and arguing that Francis does not understand America’s immigration crisis. “For a religious leader to question a person’s faith is disgraceful,” Mr. Trump said. The Trump campaign also released a statement from the candidate, defending his hard-line policies on immigration and saying the pope was out of line.  “No leader, especially a religious leader, should have the right to question another man’s religion or faith,” Mr. Trump said, going on to claim that the pope was being used for political purposes by the Mexican government. “They are using the pope as a pawn and they should be ashamed of themselves for doing so, especially when so many lives are involved and when illegal immigration is so rampant.” Mr. Trump went on to say that he would defend Christianity more aggressively than current political leaders. “If and when the Vatican is attacked by ISIS, which as everyone knows is ISIS’ ultimate trophy, I can promise you that the pope would have only wished and prayed that Donald Trump would have been president because this would not have happened,” Mr. Trump said.  Other members of Mr. Trump’s campaign also pushed back against the pope. Dan Scavino, his social media director, posted an image of Vatican City and noted that it is surrounded by a wall. And Jerry Falwell Jr., the president of Liberty University and a supporter of Mr. Trump, said that the pope had crossed a line.  “Jesus never intended to give instructions to political leaders on how to run a country,” Mr. Falwell told CNN.