 Shortly after President Trump fired F.B.I. Director James B. Comey, New York Times readers expressed optimism, outrage and skepticism across nytimes.com, Facebook and Twitter. Mr. Trump said he fired Mr. Comey over the F.B.I. investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server, but in his letter to Mr. Comey, the president hinted that he was also concerned about the investigation into his own administration’s ties to Russia. That article received more than 6,500 comments approved by moderators, who review nearly every one before they are published on The Times’s digital platforms. Thousands more readers weighed in on The Times’s Facebook page. Here are excerpts from the comments, some of which have been edited for length and clarity. Readers believed Mr. Comey was doomed once he admitted that there was an investigation into the Trump administration’s dealings with Russia. Days before he was fired, Mr. Comey had asked for funds to continue that inquiry. “It wasn’t hard to see this coming; the investigation into possible Trump campaign dealings with Russia’s intelligence network has been a sharp sword hanging over the President’s head. Being an opportunist, [Trump] just saw an opportunity to replace Comey with a more compliant F.B.I. director who will make the investigation go away.” — Nick Wright in Halifax, Nova Scotia “While I disagree with Comey and the Clinton emails, he was trying to walk between the Scylla and Charybdis of partisan politics and an open investigation of Russian tampering in the American election to help Trump win.” — SMB in Savannah, Ga. Readers suggested that Comey’s own conduct necessitated the firing.  “If you read the FACTS set forth in the Deputy Attorney General’s conclusions regarding Comey’s conduct, his temperament and his profound lack of judgment, you have to agree that POTUS had to fire him. Should have happened sooner. Comey was a mess. He was totally in the wrong job.” — R. Mackinnon in Concord, Mass. “I always thought [Comey’s] behavior in announcing the termination of the Clinton investigation while editorializing on her judgment was improper. His October surprise was beyond the pale. He should have been fired as soon as Trump took office. However, the timing of this firing is very suspect.” — Janice Fahey on The Times’s Facebook page Readers said that President Trump made a mistake in firing Mr. Comey and suggested that the president’s vanity led him to the decision. “I think Comey’s remark about being ‘mildly nauseous’ about swaying the election is what sealed the deal. Trump lost face, and this is something he cannot allow. His pride and vanity will be his undoing.” — Susan in West Virginia “Trump played it wrong, If he was truly innocent of any wrongdoing, he should have allowed the investigations to play out proving it, then asking for Comey’s resignation afterwards.” — LISAG in the South “It is clear at this point that Trump is not a shrewd tactician and politician. I am increasingly confident that we are approaching a ‘Pride comes before the fall’ solution to this sad chapter in our political history.” — Michael in New York Readers praised Mr. Trump’s efficiency and hoped that the administration will turn its attention to other concerns.  “Nothing to see here folks. Director got fired for doing a poor job. Nothing else. Go back to work. Health care on its way to Senate and tax reform (cuts) on the way. Stay on point.” — Toni in Florida “Excellent. Now the FBI can finally investigate Hillary Clinton and the Clinton Foundation. Great leadership shown by our President and his administration.” — Jeff Yepsen on The Times’ Facebook page “Liberals have been calling for Comey’s head ever since he said he was reopening the investigation into Clinton. Well, today you got what you wanted, so what’s the problem?” — C. Golden in the U.S.  Readers were quick to draw comparisons to Richard Nixon’s Saturday Night Massacre, but others said the situation was more reminiscent of Mr. Trump’s previous career in reality television.  “We had the Saturday Night Massacre. Now we are having the ‘Saturday Night Live’ Massacre.” — Brodston in Gretna, Neb. “Please stop saying that Trump’s firing of Comey is Nixon’s Saturday Night Massacre all over again. At that time back in 1973, there had already been an independent Watergate special prosecutor in place for months, who had made great strides toward bringing the President to justice. And the U.S. Attorney General and Deputy Attorney General both resigned in protest over Nixon’s decision, while Sessions and Rosenstein are complicit in Comey’s firing. Our current predicament is not the Saturday Night Massacre 2.0. It is much more bleak.” — Josh in New York “This is not ‘The Apprentice.’ This is a man who has given decades to the service of our country. What does it say to others who serve?” — Susanna Griefen in Vermont