 ASHLAND, Ky. — When Donald J. Trump reiterated his claim during his Tuesday night victory rally that Hillary Clinton was playing the “woman’s card,” her aides heard something else: ka-ching. Her presidential campaign had its best fund-raising haul yet in the three days after Mr. Trump, the Republican front-runner, made his remarks, bringing in $2.4 million through emails and the purchase of related products. Those included a hot pink “Woman Card” (“Congratulations! You’re in the majority,” the card reads), “Deal me in” T-shirts and a deck of cards with statistics like “Only 5 percent of Fortune 500 CEOs are women.” The effort came together quickly. At her victory rally in Philadelphia on Tuesday night, Mrs. Clinton had said, before Mr. Trump’s remarks: “The other day, Mr. Trump accused me of playing the, quote, ‘woman card.’ Well, if fighting for women’s health care and paid family leave and equal pay is playing the woman card, then deal me in.” After the rally, as Mrs. Clinton’s private plane touched down at Teterboro Airport on Tuesday night, aides could hardly believe their good fortune that Mr. Trump had used the expression again. The campaign’s communications director, Jennifer Palmieri, called its digital director, Jenna Lowenstein. Over the phone, Ms. Palmieri approved a video that spliced Mr. Trump’s “woman’s card” comments with Mrs. Clinton’s “deal me in” retort. Brian Fallon, a spokesman for the Clinton campaign, told reporters on Monday that the online video had been viewed three million times. The campaign, which also said on Monday that it had outraised Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont for the first time in months, bringing in $26.4 million in April, said the “woman’s card” merchandise and fund-raising emails and text messages brought in 127,000 donations from 118,000 donors, 40 percent of whom had never given to the campaign before. In other words, the Clinton campaign would like Mr. Trump to keep talking.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.