 Even the day after a Democratic debate, the presidential candidate holding the spotlight was Donald J. Trump, who took to the Sunday talk shows to defend his praise of the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, and his call for a Muslim ban, as well as to respond to Jeb Bush calling him a jerk. Mr. Trump took on Hillary Clinton after the Democratic front-runner had said on Saturday evening that he was “becoming ISIS’ best recruiter.’’ “It’s nonsense,’’ Mr. Trump said by telephone on NBC’s “Meet the Press.’’ “She lies like crazy about everything, whether it’s trips where she was being gunned down in a helicopter or an airplane; she’s a liar and everybody knows that.’’ (Mr. Trump was apparently referring to Mrs. Clinton’s account in 2008 of coming under sniper fire while visiting Bosnia, later admitting she had not come under fire).   Mr. Trump said even if Islamic State videos did surface of his calling for a temporary halt to Muslims entering the country, he would not change his position. “I think that my words represent toughness and strength,’’ he said. On the topic of another tough guy, Mr. Putin, Mr. Trump was pressed on why he had said it was “a great honor” to earn the Russian president’s praise last week, given that Mr. Putin backs American adversaries around the world. Mr. Trump said having Mr. Putin treat him with respect is a positive development if he becomes president. “Obama doesn’t get along with Putin,’’ he said on ABC’s “This Week.” “Putin can’t stand our president and it’s causing us difficulty.’’ The dominant Republican in the nominating race was pressed by ABC’s host, George Stephanopoulos, about his seeming to draw a moral equivalence between the killings of journalists under Mr. Putin and the American government’s killing of terrorists abroad.  The issue had come up Friday after Mr. Trump, asked about the deaths of journalists under Mr. Putin, had said, “I think our country does plenty of killing also.’’ Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential nominee tweeted in response: “Important distinction: thug Putin kills journalists and opponents; our presidents kill terrorists and enemy combatants.’’ Pressed by Mr. Stephanopoulos, Mr. Trump said there was no direct evidence of Mr. Putin’s involvement. “If he has killed reporters, I think that’s terrible,” Mr. Trump said. “But this isn’t like somebody that’s stood with a gun and he’s, you know, taken the blame or he’s admitted that he’s killed. He’s always denied it.” Later on “This Week,” Senator Bernie Sanders questioned Mr. Trump’s veracity. He called him a “pathological liar” for continuing to insist the debunked accounts of thousands of Muslims celebrating in New Jersey on Sept. 11. Why does Mr. Trump remain so popular? Mr. Sanders was asked.  “What somebody like a Donald Trump is doing is playing on the fears and anxieties of the American people,’’ Mr. Sanders said. “And people are afraid. They’re afraid of terrorism, rightfully so.’’ As for Mr. Bush’s calling Mr. Trump a “jerk” while campaigning in New Hampshire, Mr. Trump called his rival “an embarrassment to the Bush family” on “Meet the Press.” “Jeb is only saying that to try and get a little mojo going, but in the meantime, I went up 11 points in the new Fox Poll, I went up 11 points after the debate and he went down two,” Mr. Trump added.