 CHARLESTON, S.C. – In a recorded phone message made to South Carolina voters on Sunday night, James C. Dobson, the evangelical leader, called on Republicans to support Senator Ted Cruz for president as the only real alternative to Donald J. Trump. In the message, which was paid for by the Courageous Conservatives PAC, an outside group supporting Mr. Cruz’s campaign, Mr. Dobson said the other candidates in the race were essentially helping Mr. Trump. “Other Republicans are certainly worthy of consideration, but at this point it looks like a vote for anyone other than Ted Cruz is a vote for Donald Trump,” Mr. Dobson said in the message, a recording of which was obtained by The New York Times. “For people of faith, who care about religious liberty, life and marriage, it’s time for us to rally around Senator Ted Cruz.” Mr. Dobson, the founder of Focus on the Family, a powerful Christian activist organization, backed Mr. Cruz late last year. But his endorsement may be consequential in South Carolina, where a significant bloc of the primary vote comes from conservative evangelicals. And the round of automated phone calls may be only a prelude to a more intense anti-Trump campaign over the next few days. Recorded phone messages are a time-tested political technique in South Carolina, often used as a difficult-to-trace method of disseminating harshly negative information to voters. The Courageous Conservatives PAC has aired provocative pro-Cruz ads in other states in the past. Rick Shaftan, the group’s lead strategist, confirmed that it had sent out the phone message over the weekend, and that the group would go after Mr. Trump aggressively over the next few days. Mr. Shaftan said he had already cut two radio ads questioning whether Mr. Trump would appoint conservative judges to replace Antonin Scalia, the Supreme Court justice who died on Saturday, as well as criticizing Mr. Trump’s position on abortion, which has shifted over the years. “We’re going to say it,” Mr. Shaftan said. “Let him call us liars. That’s what South Carolina’s all about, man. Let the missiles fly.”