 Good Tuesday morning. It’s debate day, and the two main (official) Democratic candidates will at last stand lectern by lectern in front of a national audience. While the debate will include three other candidates — including Martin O’Malley — who hope to mirror Carly Fiorina’s debate-fueled rise in the Republican polls, the showdown between Hillary Rodham Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont will give them a chance to either build on, or alter, their seemingly divergent momentums. For the last six months, Mrs. Clinton has been pounded by questions about her private email server, declining poll numbers in Iowa and New Hampshire, and the unsettling threat of a challenge from Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. By contrast, Mr. Sanders has been riding a mostly uncritical wave of support, drawing huge crowds at outsize rallies, nearly matching Mrs. Clinton in raising millions of dollars and rousing Democrats with his outsider, populist appeal. This dynamic could take a sharp turn on Tuesday night with the first Democratic debate. For Mrs. Clinton, the CNN debate in Las Vegas offers her a chance to break through the barrage and make her case, to reset the clock of her candidacy before a huge audience. And this will be a relatively new kind of venue for Mr. Sanders: He will find himself on a small stage that permits a head-to-head matchup with Mrs. Clinton, rather than at another rally. No doubt, Mr. Sanders will, as he has for months, be the subject of considerable interest. Does he confront Mrs. Clinton, and if so, with what kinds of issues? Will he play down the socialist side of his political résumé in the glare of what, it seems safe to say, will be the biggest television audience he has ever encountered? Still, this debate is going to be about Mrs. Clinton, just as the first Republican debate was about Donald J. Trump. Mrs. Clinton has the most to gain and the most to lose. She has the advantage of having done this before. But she has the challenge of facing an audience that has followed her career on the public stage since 1992, with many voters holding long-formed opinions of her that might be difficult to change. — Adam Nagourney Join Us for Live Coverage Times reporters will provide instant analysis and fact-checking during the debate. Coverage begins at 8:30 p.m. Follow along on your phone or computer at nytimes.com, facebook.com/nytpolitics and @NYTPolitics. Follow along during the day. What Else We’re Watching Today —  Among the Republicans struggling to find traction, Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky’s campaign told the media website Rare that he would be “the first presidential candidate to live-stream an entire day on the campaign trail.” —  As campaign filing deadlines add pressure to Mr. Biden, his public schedule does little to clarify whether he has designs on a last-minute entrance into the race and the debate. Though he is listed as having a briefing in the morning and meetings at the White House in the afternoon, his evening, it seems, is clear. — And with new fund-raising figures due to the Federal Election Commission on Thursday, many campaigns in the last few weeks have been eager to offer reporters a preview of their robust fund-raising hauls. But one of the biggest names in the Republican field — Jeb Bush — has been silent about his  fund-raising. Analysts say that could signal a disappointing fund-raising quarter for Mr. Bush, whose support has fallen into single digits in many national polls, or it could simply indicate that Mr. Bush is holding his cards close to his vest. (His campaign declined to say on Monday when it might release its numbers.) Mr. Bush set a torrid pace in June by raising more than $11 million in his first two weeks of campaign fund-raising — and $100 million more raised through unlimited contributions to a “super PAC” supporting his campaign. He may be hard-pressed to match that pace in the coming figures, which cover the period from July 1 to Sept. 30. One of his rivals, Ben Carson, set a high bar for the Republican field, reporting at the end of September that his campaign had raised $20.2 million for the quarter. An email last month from Mr. Bush’s finance director, Heather Larrison, asking potential supporters to pitch in as little as $1 before the Sept. 30 deadline, struck an urgent tone, calling it “our biggest fund-raising deadline yet.” The email said the campaign was seeking to reach 10,000 new donors by the end of the quarter. “It’s critical that we have the resources to win,” Ms. Larrison wrote. Supporters will know any day now just how close Mr. Bush came to his goal. — Eric Lichtblau Our Favorites from The Times New Gun-Control Group to Hold Rally Outside White House In his remarks immediately after the community college shooting in Oregon, Mr. Obama lamented that the country’s response to mass killings had become routine. Now, a new group of gun-control activists has seized on the word in the hopes of adding to the pressure on policy makers for new firearms measures. The group, called A New Routine for America, is organizing a rally in front of the White House on Saturday at 10 a.m. to demonstrate its resolve. The group joins a long list of organizations, many of them similarly formed in the wake of a shooting. There is Moms Demand Action, formed after the school shooting in Newtown, Conn., in which 20 children were killed. There is Americans for Responsible Solutions, the group that Gabrielle Giffords, the former Arizona congresswoman, started after she was shot. And there is the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, a collection of 47 national organizations. But Faith Elizabeth Grant, the founder of Routine, says there is room for more. She has asked many of the other groups to encourage their membership to attend the White House rally, and she hopes the show of support for new gun control measures can be a kind of tipping point in the stalled Washington debate. “Americans are tired of what I call the ‘gun rights versus gun wrong’ debate,” Ms. Grant said. “We believe there are millions of Americans out there who aren’t engaged in this conversation but want to be. They just don’t want to be made to feel wrong because of their personal politics in other areas.” — Michael D. Shear North Carolina Governor Race Highlights Secondary Campaigns 2016 may be shorthand to some for the presidential campaign, but there are plenty of other competitive races next year that could have far-reaching consequences. One of the most heavily anticipated is North Carolina’s campaign for governor, which effectively began on Monday night when that state’s attorney general, Roy Cooper, a Democrat, announced his bid against Gov. Pat McCrory, a Republican. The showdown could be the most competitive governor’s race in the country next year, and it will take place in a state that could also be a presidential battleground. North Carolina was one of only two states that split their presidential preference from 2008 to 2012. (Mr. Obama won there in his first race, but did not carry the state in his re-election.) — Jonathan Martin What We’re Reading Elsewhere — Politico New Jersey writes that Gov. Chris Christie, who on Monday called Mr. Obama a “weakling” and said that if he were president he would shoot down Russian jets over the Syrian no-fly zone, is in a standoff with the State Assembly speaker that has resulted in 72 bills that “sit untouched on Christie’s desk.” — In other debate previews, Time looked at how two lesser-known candidates, former Senators Jim Webb of Virginia and Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, are preparing, though the candidates would not comment: “Eisenhower didn’t yap about D-Day in advance,” a Webb spokesman said. — And David Axelrod, a former senior adviser to Mr. Obama, wrote on CNN that Mrs. Clinton was a strong debater who needed to “give Democrats reason to believe.”