 Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont will head south on Tuesday to court voters in South Carolina, where a recent poll shows him trailing Hillary Clinton, and to host a rally in Georgia as part of his campaign’s tour of black colleges and universities. Mr. Sanders will begin the day speaking to faith leaders at a prayer breakfast in South Carolina with the actor Danny Glover and the former N.A.A.C.P. president Benjamin T. Jealous, who have both endorsed him. Mr. Sanders will then host town-hall-style meetings at the University of South Carolina and at an auditorium in Charleston, S.C. Mr. Sanders will also travel to Morehouse College in Atlanta. Mr. Sanders’s visits come about a week and a half before the Feb. 27 Democratic primary in South Carolina, where African-Americans are likely to make up more than half of the electorate. Mr. Jealous has vowed to increase the senator’s support among black voters in the crucial primary state, as well as across the country. The lawyer for the family of Walter L. Scott, who was fatally shot by a police officer in South Carolina, also withdrew his support from Mrs. Clinton and endorsed Mr. Sanders last month. However, 64 percent of likely Democratic primary voters say they plan to vote for Mrs. Clinton, while 27 percent say they will vote for Mr. Sanders, according to a poll conducted from Jan. 17 through Jan. 23 by NBC News, The Wall Street Journal, and the Marist Institute for Public Opinion. And, only 8 percent of Mrs. Clinton’s supporters said they might vote differently, while 12 percent of Mr. Sanders’s supporters said they might change their minds. Mr. Sanders, seeking to close that gap, has been working hard in the last few weeks to garner support and endorsements from South Carolina lawmakers and black leaders across the country. He also has several black surrogates, including the scholar Cornel West; Nina Turner, a former Ohio state senator; and Killer Mike, an Atlanta rapper. However, it remains unclear whether those efforts will be enough for Mr. Sanders to close in on Mrs. Clinton’s lead in South Carolina and strengthen his support among blacks nationwide. 