 MUSCATINE, Iowa — Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont met with campaign volunteers on Friday to energize the people who will spend their weekend knocking on doors and begging residents to caucus for him on Monday. At a campaign field office in Muscatine and at a cafe in Washington, Iowa, Mr. Sanders said once again that he believes he will win in Iowa if there is a large turnout. He told volunteers that he believed that the race with Hillary Clinton was “a literal tie.” And, he especially stressed the need to turn out the vote during his visit to Muscatine. “So my request to you, in the next three days, is beg, borrow, kidnap, do whatever you have to do,” Mr. Sanders said, as many in the crowd laughed. “Kidnapping illegal here in Iowa? Just temporary kidnapping. Just for a few hours. Grab them. Bring them in. Then, get them home safely. If the people who support our ideas come out to vote, we win. If we win here, we are off and running. We have a real path to victory.” Mr. Sanders also said that people were questioning his reliance on motivating working class and young people to vote for him.  “What the establishment thinks is that no, we can’t really increase the voter turnout,” Mr. Sanders said. “We really can’t get working people involved in the political process. We can’t get young people involved in the political process. We will continue to have a political process dominated by ‘super PACs’, by Wall Street and corporate America. That is really the issue.” Mr. Sanders did not pointedly criticize Mrs. Clinton and said the race was not about the battle between him and his opponents. “The issue for the world and for America is not whether it’s Hillary Clinton or Martin O’Malley or Bernie Sanders,” Mr. Sanders said. “The real issue is whether or not Iowa will lead this country into a political revolution which transforms our economic and political life.” Earlier in the day, dozens of people packed into Cafe Dodici in Washington to see Mr. Sanders speak at a volunteer canvass launch. People were squeezed into the cafe, some even sitting cross-legged on the floor. Others who couldn’t make it inside peered through the windows.  As Mr. Sanders made his way inside the dimly lit cafe, the crowd applauded and started chanting “Bernie. Bernie. Bernie.”   “Last night I was in Burlington,” Mr. Sanders told the group. “Today I’m in Washington.” He continued: “I like this Washington more than the other Washington.” He also responded to those who have questioned whether he can accomplish some of his ideas. “I get criticized every day, every day,” he said. “‘You’re too ambitious. Your ideas are too big. They can’t happen. You got to think small.’ I want you just to think for a moment about what real change is about.” Mr. Sanders went on to recall that he had visited the church in Birmingham, Ala., where four girls were killed in a 1963 bombing during the civil rights movement. He said it took courage to fight for civil rights as there were 14 bombings in Alabama in the same month the four girls were killed. He also said that it took courage to demand an end to segregation, to demand voting rights and to achieve same-sex marriage. Also on Friday, Mr. Sanders released a list of the “Top-10 Corporate Tax Dodgers” and vowed to “close tax loopholes like a law that lets profitable corporations exploit offshore tax havens to avoid paying U.S. income taxes.” General Electric, Boeing and Verizon paid no federal income taxes during the combined 2008 through 2013 tax years, according to the statement. If elected, the senator said he would make those companies as well as Bank of America, Citigroup, Pfizer, FedEx, Honeywell, Merck, and Corning pay more taxes. He added that he would use the revenue from the taxes to create some 13 million jobs to repair America’s infrastructure.