 BEDFORD, N.H. – Stuck under the windshields of cars parked outside a Christie campaign event on Wednesday was an article from The Boston Globe detailing the governor’s flip-flopping positions. And as reporters walked into a round-table discussion with the Bedford police, they were handed a flyer from the Kasich campaign, titled “Who Is a Better Governor, John Kasich or Chris Christie?” To Mr. Christie, this was a good sign. “I love the fact that people are shooting at me,” Mr. Christie said when asked by a reporter about the cluttered Republican race in New Hampshire. “You never shoot at someone behind you. They’re either next to you or ahead of you if you’re shooting at them.” With regards to the specific attacks against him stuck to cars amid the ice and snow, he said his record as governor gives “a very clear picture about what kind of leader I am and what kind of leader I’ll be.” The increasingly toxic tone of the Republican race, as negative attack ads have been flooding the airwaves in early voting states, is something that Mr. Christie blames not on his fellow candidates, but on President Obama. But that doesn’t mean he is withholding criticism of his rivals. To Senator Rand Paul, who is skipping the so-called undercard debate on Thursday night after failing in polling data to qualify for the main stage, Mr. Christie offered some advice, when asked by a reporter. “I think it’s a mistake,” Mr. Christie said, adding, “I’ve said all along that any time you have a camera, a podium and a microphone and you’re running for president of the United States, you have a chance to be heard.” (This gathering with reporters for example, which featured seven cameras, was unscheduled.) He did, however, understand that his advice might not be taken warmly by the Paul campaign.   “Since I’m not a campaign adviser for Senator Paul, I’m sure he’s not going to care about my opinion,” he said. “Especially my opinion. He doesn’t seem to like me too much.” Mr. Christie spent the final day before the next Republican debate, which is in Charleston, S.C., at three campaign events in New Hampshire. He reiterated his commitment to the state with the first primary – he had just held the 49th town hall of his campaign in New Hampshire that morning in Manchester – and promised to return frequently. In Bedford, he held the police round table, spending more than half the time on an issue Mr. Christie has spoken passionately about on the trail: drug addiction, particularly heroin addiction. From talk of drug dealers to shoplifting to asset forfeiture, the conversation continually returned to the drug problem plaguing New Hampshire, and how he planned to deal with it. And despite having to take a brief detour on Thursday to Charleston, Mr. Christie said he’d be back, and soon. “There’s four weeks to go,” he said of the Feb. 9 primary. “I’m going to be up here a majority of that time.”