 With her poll numbers down and interest in her campaign seeming to wane, Carly Fiorina on Friday sought to explain, in explicitly political process terms like “fave and unfave ratings,” why everything was fine. Speaking to reporters after addressing an auditorium of seniors at a residential community dotted with bocce ball courts and golf carts in Bluffton, S.C., Ms. Fiorina responded to reports that Jeb Bush was scaling back part of his campaign by talking about having “the lowest burn rate of any campaign.” She added, “We are spending our money very carefully, because we have to go the long haul.” But the wisdom of Ms. Fiorina’s decision not to spend money on advertising is debatable, given the momentum she gained after her performance in the first Republican debate. Asked when she would buy air time, she said: “Well, not for awhile. I think we have spent our time between the efforts of the campaign, and what I understand the ‘super pac’ Carly Fiorina is doing, we have spent our time making sure we have people on the ground.”  She added: “Of course, I take advantage of earned media any chance I get. The debates are a really important opportunity for me. Every time I get out on that debate stage more people say ‘Oh, I didn’t know she was running for president. I kind of like her.’ So there will come a time for ads but honestly, other candidates have already spent millions on ads and it’s done nothing for them. So I think the time is not yet.” So why the dip in the polls? Ms. Fiorina argued that it had nothing to do with attacks on her business record. “If the attacks were working, you’d start to see it in my favorable and unfavorables,” she said, referring to poll data. “And in fact I have very, very strong fave and unfave ratings. I think what you are seeing is that in the debate, half the audience saw me for the first time. And you don’t make a sale in one impression. Also we have been off national television for the last couple of weeks. We have been doing more regional media and more on the ground town halls.  “So I think you have to look at not every little bump in a poll — you have to look at a trajectory.”