 Before the boxing comes the shadow boxing. Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton threw some practice jabs in interviews broadcast on Sunday, signaling a general election that could focus heavily on Mrs. Clinton’s gender and on her more hawkish foreign policy. “The only card she has is the women’s card,’’ Mr. Trump said, continuing to contend that Mrs. Clinton would not have won more than five percent of Democratic primary votes if she were a man. “She’s done a lousy job in so many ways – even women don’t like her,’’ Mr. Trump added in an on-camera interview on Fox News Sunday, his first appearance on a Sunday talk show in almost a month. He said that in a general election he would rerun videotape of Senator Bernie Sanders saying Mrs. Clinton was not “qualified” for the presidency because she supported trade deals and voted for the war in Iraq. “I’m going to use that; we’ll have that teed up,’’ Mr. Trump said, referring to criticism Mr. Sanders leveled at Mrs. Clinton when the Democratic race hit a low point before the New York primary. Mrs. Clinton said she planned to ignore Mr. Trump’s “bullying” and “temper tantrums” and focus on issues if they face off in the general election. “I have a lot of experience dealing with men who sometimes get off the reservation in the way they behave,” she told Jake Tapper of CNN in an interview taped on Friday and shown in full on Sunday. Mrs. Clinton criticized a foreign policy speech by Mr. Trump in which he spoke of rescinding America’s global commitments. “His talk about pulling out of NATO, his talk about letting other countries have nuclear weapons, which runs counter to 70 years of bipartisan national security policy, his idea that he — quote – ‘has a secret plan’ to get rid of ISIS and he’s not going to tell anybody, I find it disturbing,’’ Mrs. Clinton said. Chris Wallace of Fox News suggested to Mr. Trump that on foreign policy, he would be running to Mrs. Clinton’s left, an unusual position for a Republican nominee. Mr. Trump responded by complaining that “we are spending all of our money in the Middle East,” that “we’re defending the world” and that “this country can’t afford to do it.” But he insisted nonetheless that “I’ll be much tougher than her.”
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.