 GULFPORT, Miss. — Howard Benson, a retired middle school guidance counselor, went up to Gov. John Kasich of Ohio after an event in Massachusetts last weekend  to offer some advice: His campaign should fashion a commercial out of the footage of an emotional moment Mr. Kasich had with a young supporter last week.  A “super PAC” supporting Mr. Kasich ended up doing exactly that. And Mr. Kasich said he was put off by it.  The ad, narrated by the actor Tim Allen, includes footage of the young supporter, Brett Smith, a senior at the University of Georgia, telling Mr. Kasich that he had been “in a really dark place for a long time,” and shows Mr. Kasich sharing a hug with the young man. “There is a place for quiet strength: the Oval Office,” the ad concludes. Mr. Kasich said he was “not comfortable” with the advertisement. “My immediate reaction in hearing about that ad is I don’t like it,” he said on Fox News on Monday.  Before the New Hampshire primary, the Kasich campaign called on the super PAC, New Day for America, to pull an advertisement that attacked Senator Marco Rubio of Florida. The group pulled the ad.  But asked on Wednesday whether he wanted the new ad to be pulled, Mr. Kasich replied, “I don’t try to tell them what to do.” “I’ve expressed my opinion about it, and that’s the end of it,” he told reporters after an event here. Mr. Smith, 21, is volunteering for New Day for America at his college, and Connie Wehrkamp, a spokeswoman for the group, said it had received his permission before releasing the ad. “Our ad continues to run because we feel it’s important to show this side of the governor that so many Americans have come to know,” she said on Wednesday. Mr. Smith said he did not have a problem with the ad using footage from his exchange with Mr. Kasich, which took place at Clemson University last week, before South Carolina’s primary. He said that the past week had been surreal and that he had received numerous positive messages from people who saw video of his interaction with Mr. Kasich. “I’m hoping this gives people another chance to look at him,” Mr. Smith said. “It’s a genuine moment. If that helps people either connect with me or with him, I’m pretty comfortable with that.” He said of Mr. Kasich’s response to the advertisement: “It just goes to show what kind of man he is. He doesn’t want to appear to exploit a sincere moment for his benefit.” As for Mr. Benson, the retired guidance counselor who recommended that Mr. Kasich use the moment in an ad, he said he thought the footage showed Mr. Kasich in an appealing way. “With that particular clip, it just hit me,” he said after making the suggestion to Mr. Kasich. “I thought it was tremendous, and it really showed that he’s got compassion.” Mr. Kasich told him it was just nice that the moment had happened.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.