 Ben Carson does not appreciate the “dirty tricks” that Senator Ted Cruz’s campaign employed before the Iowa caucuses, and he challenged Mr. Cruz on Wednesday to do something about it. During a news conference in which he invoked the Bible, Mr. Carson said that voters — particularly the religious ones that Mr. Cruz has been appealing to — should pay close attention to the actions of the Texas senator’s campaign. As Iowans were heading to the caucuses on Monday, members of Mr. Cruz’s team spread rumors that Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon, was dropping out of the race and encouraged his supporters to back Mr. Cruz. Mr. Carson was, in fact, planning to go home to Florida the next day and pick up some clean clothes. Mr. Cruz called him to apologize and said that what his staff members did was unacceptable. But on Wednesday Mr. Carson, who came in fourth place in Iowa, said that Mr. Cruz’s apology was not enough. “It’s clear that there were people who tried to take advantage of a situation and tried to distort information,” Mr. Carson said. He went on to quote a passage from the Bible that says, “By their fruit you will know them,” and suggested that the situation revealed something about Mr. Cruz’s character. “Let me put it this way, when I discovered that there were things in my campaign that I couldn’t agree with after making an investigation, I made changes,” Mr. Carson said. “That’s what a good leader does. If he agrees with it, he doesn’t need to make changes.” Donald J. Trump, who finished second in Iowa, has also seized on the issue and accused Mr. Cruz’s campaign of fraud. He said the outcome of the caucuses should be nullified. The crowd of journalists who turned out for Mr. Carson’s hastily scheduled news conference at the National Press Club in Washington seemed to be as interested in his own campaign missteps — and how they could have enabled the Cruz campaign. While several presidential candidates have dropped out this week, Mr. Carson said he was still seeing enthusiasm about his candidacy and that he did not plan to step aside. “In a baseball game, there are nine innings,” Mr. Carson said. “You don’t call the game after an inning or two.”