 BURLINGTON, Vt. — Want to see Donald J. Trump speak in Vermont? Then you better pledge allegiance to Mr. Trump. Several people who waited for hours outside of the Flynn Center to attend Mr. Trump’s rally in Burlington on Thursday night said that, as they passed through metal detectors, security workers asked if they were supporters of the billionaire businessman. Rowdy protesters chanted and held signs outside of the theater before Mr. Trump’s speech, and his campaign released thousands of extra tickets when it learned that supporters of Senator Bernie Sanders, the Democratic presidential candidate who was once Burlington’s mayor, were planning to come to try to steal the show. The theater can hold just 1,400 people, but several thousand tickets were given out, and the campaign was taking measures to ensure that those who made it in were people they wanted. “I’m taking care of my people, not people who don’t want to vote for me or are undecided,” Mr. Trump said through a campaign spokeswoman, Hope Hicks. “They are loyal to me and I am loyal to them.”  Jennifer Vincent, of South Burlington, said that after she was allowed to enter the building, two people in front of her were taken aside and turned away when they said that they were supporters of Mr. Sanders. “You have to say you’re a Trump supporter if you want to come and hear Trump,” said Ms. Vincent, who upon entering the event revealed that Mr. Trump was not actually her top choice for president. “They even asked my 12-year-old son.” Beth Griffin, 47, a letter carrier from Burlington, was among the many demonstrators outside the Flynn Center. She had reserved a ticket, but scrawled a peace sign and a heart on it instead of trying to use it to get in, quietly showing her displeasure with Mr. Trump, The line to get into the theater, she said, “is like nothing I’ve ever seen in Burlington.” “Not for Phish, not on Free Cone Day — nothing,” she said, referring to the band and the annual occasion when Ben and Jerry’s, which is based nearby, gives out free ice cream.