 ST. PAUL — The Cruz campaign is making a list. As attendees packed a reception hall in Minnesota on the first night of Senator Ted Cruz’s seven-day, 12-city tour, they were greeted by an uncommon supporter: a costumed Santa Claus, posing with children and more than a few adults beside a fireplace. But the campaign’s aim was not exclusively festive. To retrieve photos taken with the Santa, visitors were handed cards directing them to Mr. Cruz’s website, where they were asked to provide their names, email addresses and ZIP codes. “The Santa’s optically good anyway. It’s a Christmas tour, it makes total sense,” said Jeff Roe, Mr. Cruz’s campaign manager. “But you still have to run a campaign when these are over. You can’t just come out and do rallies and have nothing left when you leave except for a bunch of uneaten cookies. Now we’re going to have living data of people. They’ll have an experience they’ll remember forever.” Mr. Roe said the campaign, known for its sophisticated data operation, had been brainstorming ways to connect with supporters since an August swing through several southern states. About 19,000 people attended 13 rallies during that trip, he said, but the campaign was disappointed not to collect more information from them. Past efforts to amass voter data through photography had been too complicated and time-consuming, Mr. Roe said — a jumble of business card accumulation and handwritten names. “So on Saturday, I had the idea: Let’s have a Santa,” Mr. Roe said. He instructed a staff member, who bore a resemblance, that if a proper Santa could not be located, he would be asked to don the suit.  “The Santa market is a little bumpy, so we had a lot of vetting to go through to get Santas,” Mr. Roe said, adding that he hoped to have a Santa for every stop on the tour. “We got this Santa today.” That Santa was Red Bartholomew, a 64-year-old supporter with past performances at Tea Party events, fund-raisers and church functions. Mr. Bartholomew said the campaign had reached him through his work with “constitutional-minded people,” noting that he was a member of Overpasses for America, a group that flies flags and posts signs — often sharply critical of Barack Obama — along pedestrian overpasses. In Mr. Cruz, he seems to have found a kindred spirit. In an interview, Mr. Bartholomew summarized his worldview (“I have no fear”), described an alternative character he has portrayed (“some people call me Liberty Claus”) and lamented the burdensome Santa industry regulations that had in the past hamstrung his work. “You ever heard of Santa Claus University? Yes, there’s a Santa Claus University,” Mr. Bartholomew said. “After seeing regulations, I went, ‘Oh for crying out loud, it’s just Santa Claus.’” He added, admiringly, that “part of what Ted is about is, we’ve gotten tied up in regulations.” He also suggested that his history as a protester had earned him some enemies. “I’ve been dealing with the police for years,” he said. “They know who I am and they don’t scare me.” Mr. Bartholomew seemed to betray little of his biography to the well-wishers on his knee. And supporters of Mr. Cruz appeared broadly grateful to see him, though many of them snapped photos on their phones and left before anyone could assign them a “photo number” and hand them a card that read: “Merry Christmas! Get your photo at tedcruz.org/christmastphotos.” Mary Kay Storhaug, 45, from Andover, Minn., said Mr. Bartholomew had provided a welcome distraction for her children during the rally. “Santa’s there, there’s free candy canes for the kids to keep them from yelling,” she said. Ms. Storhaug was mildly surprised to find a Santa Claus at a political event, she said, but added, “it’s a rally, not a funeral.” Mr. Roe said the photos were part of building “a lasting relationship” with voters, particularly in states like Minnesota that often receive little attention from candidates until just before voting begins. “When they do engage with a presidential campaign, I want it to be a meaningful engagement that lasts for hopefully their whole life and our whole life,” Mr. Roe said.  Still, at least one attendee seemed wary of letting his information reach the wrong hands.  Mr. Bartholomew, asked to provide a phone number where he could be reached, said he would not answer his landline unless a caller left a message.  “I have to screen my calls,” he said, “for a lot of different reasons.”