 Take President Obama, add the Oscar-winning director Steven Spielberg and some stories of Holocaust heroism made for the silver screen, and throw in Ambassador Ron Dermer, who has had a somewhat tumultuous relationship with the White House over the Iran nuclear deal. It’s a recipe for a drama-filled evening at the Israeli Embassy in Washington on Wednesday night. Mr. Obama is to make an unusual appearance there to honor Americans who risked their lives to save Jews during the Holocaust, his latest move to show solidarity with Israel after a historic rupture over the Iran accord. He will speak at a reception honoring two American and two Polish citizens posthumously with the Righteous Among the Nations Award for non-Jews who rescued Jews during World War II.  Mr. Spielberg will be on hand to introduce the president.  It will be a rare public appearance by Mr. Obama alongside Mr. Dermer, who figured prominently last year in the feud between the president and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu over the Iran nuclear agreement, helping to orchestrate an invitation for Mr. Netanyahu to address Congress to denounce the deal as it was being negotiated. Administration officials complained at the time that the ambassador was playing politics before Israeli elections. This time, Mr. Dermer collaborated with President Reuven Rivlin of Israel to orchestrate Mr. Obama’s invitation to speak at the event, timed to coincide with International Holocaust Remembrance Day and the 71st anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz concentration camp. The president will honor the first American service member to be named Righteous Among the Nations. The service member, Master Sgt. Roddie Edmonds, an army officer taken prisoner in Germany, is being recognized for refusing, at gunpoint, a Nazi order to identify which of his fellow prisoners of war were Jewish.  Lois Gunden, a Mennonite from Goshen, Ind., is being honored for sheltering Jewish children at a home she established in southern France.
Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.