 Hillary Rodham Clinton on Tuesday called the Department of Veterans Affairs an “archaic system” that was “built for the past, not the future,” as she unveiled a multipronged set of proposals to expand care and medical services to the country’s 21.8 million veterans. “America’s promise to our veterans is a sacred responsibility,” she said at a round-table discussion with veterans in Derry, N.H. “They need to be fixed; they need to be fixed now.” The plan proposes broadening health care for women, and devoting more money for mental health care providers and training. In light of past controversies over sexual abuse in the military, Mrs. Clinton also proposed ensuring that military sexual trauma be recognized as a form of post-traumatic stress disorder. The plan would go beyond improving medical treatment to expanding child care options at V.A. facilities, bolstering protections for whistle-blowers, providing additional job training for veterans, closing loopholes that allow for-profit schools to target members of the military and strengthening nondiscrimination laws to protect military families. Mrs. Clinton’s proposals come as she has faced criticism from Republicans for saying last month that the problems plaguing the veterans department are not as “widespread” as her political opponents make them out to be. “From all my work on behalf of veterans, there’s a lot about the V.A. that’s right, a lot that works,” Mrs. Clinton told MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow. “Let’s focus on what’s wrong and fix it.” She has repeatedly accused Republicans of wanting to “privatize” veterans’ medical care. “Privatization is a betrayal, plain and simple,” Mrs. Clinton said on Tuesday. “I am not going to let it happen.” But her proposals included allowing veterans to strategically purchase private-sector health care — a plan similar to one presented by Senator John McCain, Republican operatives pointed out. “Hillary Clinton Proposes Exact Same V.A. Plan She’s Been Demonizing,” read an email from America Rising, a conservative “super PAC.” The wide-ranging discussion at the New Hampshire event, which came the day before Veterans Day, drew questions about her 2002 vote in the Senate to authorize the use of force in Iraq. (“It was a mistake for me to give that vote to President Bush, for a lot of reasons that are now obvious to us,” she said.) And Mrs. Clinton was also pressed on whether she would support sending ground troops to fight the Islamic State. “We are not going to put our troops on the ground, but we will support others who are willing to fight for themselves,” she said.