 Aides to Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican whose committee is reviewing issues surrounding Hillary Rodham Clinton‘s tenure at the State Department, are trying to quell questions raised by Democrats about who has provided him with previously undisclosed  information.  The back-and-forth between Mr. Grassley’s aides and the Senate Democratic leadership has played out over the last week. Mr. Grassley, who has served for years on the Senate Judiciary Committee, has been trying to investigate the employment status of Huma Abedin. Ms. Abedin is a top adviser to Mrs. Clinton who was granted a “special government employee” designation that allowed her to consult for outside clients.  Over the summer, officials in Mr. Grassley’s office suggested that he had obtained information from a confidential source about aspects of Ms. Abedin’s time at the State Department related to a request for an F.B.I. investigation. Mr. Grassley also revealed over the summer that there had been an inspector general inquiry into whether Ms. Abedin was overpaid while on maternity leave three years ago, an allegation that she has contested. But the Senate Democratic leadership in recent weeks publicly raised the possibility that Mr. Grassley’s former investigator, Emilia DiSanto, was a source for him. Ms. DiSanto has been a deputy inspector general at the State Department since October 2013.  Ms. DiSanto and Mr. Grassley have both denied that she is a source of his information. The issue arose in part because of Democrats’ frustration that Mr. Grassley had held up the nominations of 20 foreign service officers to the State Department, saying he had not received information on them.  On Friday, Mr. Grassley’s aides released emails involving the confidential source, who was not identified but whose lawyer is a former aide to Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, a Democrat. The emails show extensive discussions about the arrangements of a meeting to include the source, the lawyer and legislators from both parties, including Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont and Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, both Democrats.  It is unclear from the exchanges how Mr. Grassley’s office initially connected with the confidential source.  An email to reporters from Mr. Grassley’s spokeswoman, Jill Gerber, included a statement she first released last week.  “Democratic staff for the Senate minority leader and Democratic operatives appear to be circulating a false, misleading timeline with reporters suggesting incorrectly that a former staffer for Sen. Chuck Grassley is the ‘confidential source’ for one of many Grassley inquiries into State Department personnel practices,” Ms. Gerber wrote.   “The former Grassley staffer was not the source. The source, in fact, was well known to bipartisan, bicameral staff who met with him jointly, along with Grassley staff.”  