 Jeb Bush’s campaign on Thursday unveiled the names of his 341 major fund-raisers, a list dotted with executives, financiers and old friends of the Bush family. The release included each of the so-called bundlers who have collected at least $17,600, surpassing federal rules that require such reporting only for registered lobbyists — prompting the Bush campaign to present the disclosure as a grand gesture of transparency and the standard for his rivals. But while the data offered a snapshot of Mr. Bush’s fund-raising machine, it left some critics yearning for a much more granular disclosure showing the pecking order within the ranks of fund-raisers. (The list does not differentiate between those who raised the minimum and those who collected, for example, $500,000.) “It is a good thing that people are disclosing their bundlers’ names,” said Chris Gates, the president of the Sunlight Foundation, a watchdog group. “It is absolutely not enough in the environment we are in.”  Bundlers — the name used to characterize supporters who bundle up donations from their friends and associates — are particularly important to presidential campaigns, as contributions from individuals are capped at a few thousand dollars. A helpful bundler, for example, can use his or her own network to raise tens of thousands of dollars or much more, making bundlers a particularly important aspect of financing a national campaign.  Mr. Bush’s campaign rejected any suggestion that he had shirked transparency in disclosing its bundlers, noting how little other candidates had revealed this cycle. “This was a voluntary disclosure that goes above and beyond what is required by law and what every single other Republican candidate for the past two elections has done,” a Bush spokesman, Tim Miller, said in an email. “We’ll review any disclosures that go ever further beyond our opponents in the area of transparency going forward.” Presidential campaigns have taken varying tacks in recent cycles in how they release details about their bundlers, as the rules around campaign finance have shifted. During the summer, Hillary Rodham Clinton’s campaign released a list of its 125  “Hillblazers,” who had raised at least $100,000.  In 2004, George W. Bush’s campaign disclosed his fund-raisers in tiers; those who raised at least $100,000 were deemed pioneers and others who surpassed $200,000 were called Rangers. Jeb Bush’s list includes executives from New York, allies from Texas — where the Bush name has long carried weight — and associates from Mr. Bush’s days as Florida governor. Among the bundlers are Eric Cantor, the former House majority leader, who has endorsed Mr. Bush; Randy Best, an education entrepreneur and longtime supporter who did business in Florida; and Ana Navarro, a Republican commentator for CNN, who worked for Mr. Bush.  But while critics appreciate knowing their names, some still want more details. “We deserve to know who the elites are who are raising the big money, ” said Mr. Gates, adding, “Especially when bundlers are ambassadors and get appointments to commissions.” Sarah Cohen contributed reporting.