 It is no secret that Senator Ted Cruz of Texas is serious about wooing evangelical voters. Remarks on the stump are laced with references to religious liberty — and what Mr. Cruz sees as attacks against it. His team has assembled a master list of 411 national evangelicals whose support has been deemed most critical, according to a campaign official. The campaign said Mr. Cruz had secured the support of 191. And over the next two days, Mr. Cruz will make his case at a pair of rallies aimed at the class of voters who will be central to his fortunes. He will begin in Orlando, Fla., on Friday with a rally at a church, Faith Assembly of God, before holding a larger gathering in Greenville, S.C., on Saturday. The Saturday event is the second wide-scale religious rally the campaign has organized. In August, more than 2,000 people attended a similar event in Iowa, where evangelicals have picked the winners of the last two Republican caucuses.  Rick Tyler, a spokesman for Mr. Cruz, said the campaign expected up to 2,000 people in Greenville. The event will include people who say their religious liberties have been threatened. “We will have several victims tell their personal stories so that people can understand that the threat is real, and that there is a candidate who is willing to stand up against it,” Mr. Tyler said. In Iowa during the summer, Mr. Cruz invited eight people he called “victims of government persecution” to tell their stories, including bakers, a florist and wedding planners who said they had been publicly attacked for refusing service to same-sex couples. “You have endured pain, you have endured the attacks, you have endured hatred,” Mr. Cruz said to one of the wedding planners, reaching out to touch her arm. Large screens around the stage showed a close-up of her anguished face. The Greenville event will be at Bob Jones University, an evangelical institution with a fraught history in presidential politics. In 2000, George W. Bush, then the governor of Texas, came under fire for appearing at the school and not speaking out against its ban on interracial dating. The ban was lifted weeks later.  The school has also faced criticism for its handling of sexual assault cases. An independent report last year found that university officials had told victims they were to blame for their abuse and discouraged them from reporting crimes to the police, saying that doing so would damage their families. 