 INDIANAPOLIS — Freshly printed signs, with both last names. Singing from the stage. The earnest use of the word “élan” at a rollicking political rally. But of all the novelties at the kickoff event for the Ted Cruz-Carly Fiorina presidential not-yet-ticket, few proved as surreal as its premise: a candidate, trailing by some 400 delegates, naming his running mate nearly three months before the Republican convention. If the announcement by Mr. Cruz, a Texas senator, was intended to seize the attention of the political class, it seemed to succeed for at least part of an afternoon. The two grinned. They waved. They held hands and raised them high. They filled nearly an hour of airtime, and seemed easily capable of doubling that. Mr. Cruz, seeking to build the suspense, unfurled a series of analogies before introducing his guest. “There’s an old adage in management that A’s hire A’s and B’s hire C’s,” he said, to reluctant applause. He described how his daughters, 8 and 5, “regularly text Carly,” who has joined them often on the campaign bus since endorsing Mr. Cruz last month. He cast her as a consummate outsider who had “shattered glass ceilings” in business and beyond in her ascent to chief executive of Hewlett-Packard. And he positioned Mrs. Fiorina as the antidote to Donald J. Trump — “a man,” Mr. Cruz recalled, “who, in his characteristic understatement, said of her, ‘Look at that face.’ ” He added, alluding to a debate showdown between Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Trump, that “every one of us remembers the grace, the class, the élan with which Carly responded.” “Never! Never Trump!” a supporter shouted at one point, coaxed on by a few hundred attendees in a partly filled pavilion downtown. Mrs. Fiorina, joining Mr. Cruz onstage after about a half-hour, seemed to agree. She echoed a Cruz campaign staple of late, tying Mr. Trump to Hillary Clinton (“they’re not going to challenge the system, they are the system,” she said), and defended Mr. Cruz’s reputation for having few friends in Washington. Those who “rock the boat” earn enemies, she said, later adding that Mr. Cruz was in fact “a lot of fun.” And in a flourish that instantly seemed destined for social media and late-night comedy distinction, Mrs. Fiorina confirmed Mr. Cruz’s revelation that she has taken to inventing songs to sing to his daughters on the road. A sampling:  I know two girls that I just adore / I’m so happy I can see them more. ’Cause we travel on the bus all day / We get to play. We get to play. The crowd cheered as she finished her tune. “I won’t bore you with any more of the song,” Mrs. Fiorina said. “But they have four verses, Caroline and Catherine.”  She lifted her two index fingers skyward. “Love you, girls,” she said.