 Less than a week after the Paris attacks, the House on Thursday is set to approve a bill that would introduce new screening standards for refugees from Syria and Iraq in response to fears that terrorists could enter the United States under the guise of the federal resettlement program. The measure, which will meet some Democratic opposition, says that refugees can be allowed into the country only if the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, in concurrence with the head of the F.B.I. and the director of national intelligence, certifies to all 12 congressional committees that each person has undergone a background check sufficient to determine they are not a security risk. The White House is opposed to the measure, which it said would provide “no additional meaningful security for the American people” and is a waste of resources. It is a remarkably quick reaction for a usually molasses-like legislature and shows the power of a terror crisis to motivate lawmakers. Whether the legislation can become law is a different question. It is unclear what its prospects are in the Senate, and it would be rejected by President Obama, who has expressed strong confidence in the current system of vetting refugees. But the maneuvering reflected some interesting tactics from new Speaker Paul D. Ryan. The measure technically does not suspend the refugee program, providing Republicans some cover from criticism they were denying refugees a chance for escape. It also institutes no religious test — another potentially inflammatory idea that Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and others have suggested as a possibility. (On Wednesday, Mr. Cruz’s office introduced a proposal that would “immediately bar refugees to the United States from any country,” that “contains territory substantially controlled by a foreign terrorist organization.”) By acting quickly, Mr. Ryan has at least for the moment removed the issue from a coming spending fight, reducing the chances that it could tie up the appropriations bills that must be passed by Dec. 11. Some conservatives complained the measure was not tough enough, but the new speaker seems to have satisfied most of his membership. One major question is how many Democrats, hearing it from constituents back home, split from Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the party leader, and back the measure.