 A former N.A.A.C.P. president is expected to endorse Bernie Sanders on Friday, in a move that could enhance the Vermont senator’s support among black voters across the country. Benjamin T. Jealous, who headed the N.A.A.C.P. from 2008 to 2013, is expected to appear in New Hampshire alongside Mr. Sanders to come out publicly supporting the senator, according to a person connected with the Sanders campaign.  Mr. Jealous, a well-known and respected figure, was at age 35 the youngest person ever elected to lead the N.A.A.C.P. and focused much of his time on issues of voter registration and mobilization. Mr. Sanders has been trying to strengthen his support among black voters as the race for the Democratic presidential nomination moves into more diverse primary states such as Nevada and South Carolina. Hillary Clinton, though, has a significant lead on Mr. Sanders among black voters, who have known and supported her and former President Bill Clinton for years. Mr. Sanders has had some success cutting into Mrs. Clinton’s supporters. Nina Turner, a former Ohio state senator, was a prominent Clinton supporter in her state until, she said, she got on the phone with Mr. Sanders last summer. The lawyer for the family of Walter L. Scott, who was fatally shot by a police officer in South Carolina, also withdrew his support from Mrs. Clinton and endorsed Mr. Sanders last week. Meanwhile, Mr. Sanders also picked up an endorsement from the Las Vegas-based International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 357 on Thursday, making inroads with labor in a state where unions are expected to play an outsize role in the Feb. 20 Democratic caucuses. Mr. Sanders significantly trails Mrs. Clinton in big national union endorsements. He has picked up a few endorsements while Mrs. Clinton has been endorsed by more than 20 labor groups. Endorsements by unions in Nevada could prove critical as the state’s working-class voters go to caucus. The electrical workers’ union is now working to register all of its 4,000 members to vote and is encouraging them to caucus for Mr. Sanders, said Al Davis, the union’s business manager and financial secretary.   Joan Kato, Mr. Sanders’s Nevada state director, welcomed the endorsement, saying the campaign looked forward to collaborating with the union. “Bernie Sanders has been a lifelong labor advocate, even before he was running for president,” she said in a statement. “He stands in solidarity with workers, and our fight for fair wages, fair labor standards, workers’ safety, the right to bargain and organize — values that are shared among all unions — in Nevada and across the nation.”