 Allies of Senator Ted Cruz of Texas have aggressively lobbied for a presidential ticket that would make Senator Marco Rubio of Florida his running mate, but Mr. Rubio has rebuffed them, according to two people briefed on the closely guarded efforts. While it is not clear how seriously Mr. Cruz has considered the idea, his campaign has at least conducted a poll of Republican primary voters to gauge their feelings on the prospect of the two senators joining forces. The pairing has been pushed most fervently by a third Republican senator, Mike Lee of Utah, an ally of both men who became the first senator to endorse Mr. Cruz this month. Mr. Cruz’s examination of how Republican voters would respond to a ticket featuring the two first-term senators, which was confirmed by a person briefed on the campaign’s research, reflects his narrow path to the nomination. With Donald J. Trump widening his delegate lead last week and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio remaining in the race, Mr. Cruz is being forced to explore creative measures to consolidate the support of Republicans opposed to Mr. Trump’s nomination. But Mr. Rubio, who dropped out of the race after losing the Florida primary on March 15, has indicated that he would not agree to such a proposal and has not even determined whether he will endorse Mr. Cruz. Mr. Rubio wants to halt Mr. Trump’s march to the nomination and, despite recently campaigning against each other, is friendly with Mr. Cruz. But in making scores of thank-you calls to donors in recent days, Mr. Rubio has been discouraged by some party financiers from supporting Mr. Cruz, who is reviled by much of the party’s elite, according to a Republican strategist briefed on the calls, who insisted on anonymity to describe private conversations. Aides to Mr. Cruz did not respond to questions regarding the poll that included Mr. Rubio as a possible running mate. The poll, Mr. Lee’s efforts and Mr. Rubio’s lack of interest were first reported by Politico. Before dropping out of the presidential race, Mr. Rubio dismissed the idea of teaming up with Mr. Cruz, comparing it to a fanciful plot line that might be found on the television show “House of Cards.” Since ending his campaign, Mr. Rubio has been mostly quiet about his intentions. “I’m not going to be vice president,” he said Thursday on his return to the Senate. “I’m not interested in being governor of Florida. I’m going to finish up my term in the Senate over the next 10 months. We’re going to work really hard here, and we have some things we want to achieve, and then I’ll be a private citizen in January.” But on a call with supporters from Minnesota last week, he seemed to praise Mr. Cruz, calling him “the only conservative left in the race,” according to the St. Paul Pioneer Press, which obtained a recording of the call. Mr. Lee, who, like Mr. Cruz and Mr. Rubio, is in his mid-40s, has been making the case to Republicans that the best way to stop Mr. Trump is to bring the two Cuban-American senators together. He has been lobbying Mr. Rubio to, at the very least, endorse Mr. Cruz. As Mr. Cruz and Mr. Rubio tussled during the primary, particularly over immigration policy, Mr. Lee expressed some unease with the tenor of the race. “It’s not easy to see them fighting,” he said  before a Cruz event last month in South Carolina. Without Mr. Rubio’s backing, and with Mr. Kasich remaining in the race, Mr. Cruz has so far struggled to unite the anybody-but-Trump bloc of Republicans. He has received just one new endorsement from his fellow Republican senators, and Mr. Rubio’s major donors have been largely quiet about their intentions.