 When some of Hillary Clinton’s top supporters created a “super PAC” in March to work with her presidential campaign on media responses, they promised a “rapid response” to political attacks on her from all comers. They certainly delivered on Thursday. The “super PAC” – Correct the Record, founded by David Brock and other staunch Clinton allies – flooded the emails of Washington reporters with a running, blow-by-blow critique of Mrs. Clinton’s contentious appearance before the House Benghazi committee.   “REPUBLICANS KICK OFF HEARING BY ABANDONING FOCUS ON BENGHAZI,” declared an email at 11:24 am from the group’s “rapid response” team under the banner of its own “Benghazi Research Center.” Three minutes later came another news release, this one laying out the “biggest misdeeds” of one of Mrs. Clinton’s Republican accusers on the panel, Peter Roskam of Illinois. A full 15 minutes later – an eternity, in the life of the “rapid response team”—Correct the Record’s Brad Woodhouse emailed to say: “More than an hour in and no questions about the events surrounding actual Benghazi attack.” Two minutes later, the group was emailing again to blast the “far-fetched conspiracy theories” of another Republican accuser, Rep. Martha Roby of Alabama.
And eight minutes after that, there was a lengthy email “fact-checking” 11 of the main points laid out by Representative Trey Gowdy of South Carolina, the Republican chairman of the panel. (Spoiler alert: Correct the Record disagreed with Mr. Gowdy on everything.) Etcetera. By the time the committee returned from lunch, Correct the Record had put out 18 news releases. And there was still an entire afternoon session left to go.
 By late afternoon, with testimony entering its eighth hour and Correct the Record trashing the Republicans for interrupting Mrs. Clinton so often, its  press releases had slowed to a not-so-rapid pace of three or so an hour.  It had been a long day, and it seemed everyone was tired– even Mrs. Clinton’s rapid-response team.  