 Tonight is the last Republican presidential debate of 2015, and possibly the most consequential. When nine candidates take the stage for the prime-time event hosted by CNN in Las Vegas, the man in the middle, Donald J. Trump, will be very familiar. But he’ll be standing next to someone different — Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who is suddenly the man of the hour as he has surged in three polls in Iowa. Mr. Trump has made clear he is itching for a fight with Mr. Cruz. But Mr. Cruz has done almost everything he can to stave off such an assault, mindful that even the mildest provocation can be used by Mr. Trump to justify a counterattack. For it is not just on the debate stage that Mr. Trump can attack, but also on television and in interviews for days after the event. Yet Mr. Trump is not Mr. Cruz’s only worry. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida and Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey will also have reason to try to blunt Mr. Cruz’s momentum. So will Ben Carson, whose judgment Mr. Cruz questioned at a private fund-raiser last week (Mr. Cruz also questioned Mr. Trump’s judgment at the event). How Mr. Cruz will fare under such intense heat remains to be seen. He has shown political agility for much of the debates and has been playing a long game when few others in the field have been able to. But when his team called the report about his criticisms of Mr. Trump and Mr. Carson “misleading” before the audio was made available, it served as a reminder that he is still adjusting to a lengthy stint on the national stage. There is also a question over whether Mr. Rubio can have a breakout moment and regain some of the momentum he had after the last debate. Mr. Cruz may not be the only target. The debate represents one of the dwindling chances available to establishment Republicans to diminish Mr. Trump. Few have stood up to him on the debate stage, other than Carly Fiorina. If tonight is the same, Mr. Trump could be hard to stop.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.