 All four-limbed, land-based vertebrates came from a common ancestor with legs that ended in five toes. Over time, many animals lost some of their digits: Hippos, rhinos and camels have four, three and two toes on each leg. But only one living group of animals ended up with a single toe per foot: the group containing modern horses. A comprehensive new study, published last week in Proceedings of the Royal Society B, lends support to existing hypotheses about the dramatic transformation in horses’ hooves through history. Namely, as horses evolved and got larger from their ancestral, dog-sized form, it was better to have one very robust toe than several smaller ones to support their increased body mass. Furthermore, having just one toe reduced the weight horses had to carry at the end of each leg, making it easier for them to run and maneuver. The study is a careful examination of “a story everyone had taken for granted and hadn’t really tested thoroughly,” said Christine Janis, a professor emerita of evolutionary biology at Brown University who was not involved in the research. As told in textbooks and evolutionary biology classes, the earliest horses were small, dwelled in forests and had four toes on their front legs and three on their back legs. Then, more than 20 million years ago, their habitat in North America started to shift from forest to grassland. In these new grasslands, ancient horses needed to move at faster speeds to evade predators and cover more ground for grazing. It made sense that a larger body and longer, more slender legs with fewer toes would help horses achieve that. Brianna McHorse, a Ph.D. candidate at Harvard University, wanted to see if this narrative checked out. In the new study, she and colleagues scanned leg fossils from 12 kinds of horses, ranging from the oldest ones that lived 55 million years ago to species in the same group as modern-day horses. In previous work, the researchers had measured the stresses placed on the limbs of living horses as they performed various movements, like trotting, accelerating and jumping. Assuming ancient horses would have moved in similar ways, Ms. McHorse’s team created a model to estimate the forces acting on the lower legs, including the toes, of different horses over evolutionary history. Early on, when horses were smaller and had more evenly-sized toes, their side digits were essential for carrying some body weight, the scientists showed. However, over time, as horses evolved larger bodies and their side toes started to shrink, their center toes became larger and more robust, compensating for the extra load, until they were the only digits left. Ms. McHorse emphasized that the study does not definitively answer why horses’ side toes started to vanish. She suspected that transitioning to a single toe would have made it easier for horses to swing their legs back and forth at more impressive speeds (think of how it’s harder to run with weights around your ankles). In fact, the athletic prowess of horses struck her as the most fascinating aspect of this story. Horses are an exception to the general rule that smaller animals are more maneuverable. Even horses that weigh more than a ton can trot, jump or gallop gracefully. “If I had no knowledge of horses and you said, ‘Hey, there’s this animal that’s a big grazer and only has one toe,’ I would probably not expect it to be capable of the kind of speed and jumping and other athletic feats that horses are capable of,” Ms. McHorse said. In fact, this single toe may have helped the beasts evolve the large size and agility they’re known for today.