 Tom Bocci’s encounter with a bacterium he had never heard of began in April, when his doctor suggested a test for prostate cancer. Because the results appeared slightly abnormal, Mr. Bocci underwent a biopsy, taking antibiotics beforehand as a standard precaution against infection. There was no problem with his prostate, it turned out. But a few days later, Mr. Bocci developed severe diarrhea, fever and vomiting. He grew dehydrated. Five days afterward, in a hospital emergency room, doctors diagnosed a Clostridium difficile infection. Antibiotics appeared to squelch the infection but, as happens in 20 to 30 percent of cases, the symptoms returned with a vengeance as soon as he finished the drugs. Over several months, Mr. Bocci suffered from migraines, weakness, anxiety and hypertension. Told to isolate himself, he warned family members not to visit his home in Troy, Mich.; his wife, Wendy, moved into a spare bedroom. He lost 30 pounds. After the third recurrence, “I really thought I was going to die,” Mr. Bocci, now 71, said. “And sometimes I felt I wanted to.” Though C. diff, as the bug is known, was identified in the 1930s, it became one of the country’s prime health concerns only a few years ago, after a particularly virulent and drug-resistant strain called NAP1 emerged in the 2000s. By 2011, an analysis by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimated there were 453,000 cases a year and 29,300 deaths from the infection. Two years later, the C.D.C. categorized C. diff as an “urgent threat.” It remains one today. But now experts are sounding guardedly optimistic. The agency is still analyzing surveillance statistics and will not issue a report until later this year. Still, said Dr. Alice Guh, a medical officer at the C.D.C.’s Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion, “We are moving in the right direction.” In one region of upstate New York, for example, C. diff infections in nursing homes — a common occurrence — have dropped sharply to about 170 cases a year from about 450, said Dr. Ghinwa Dumyati, an infectious disease specialist at the University of Rochester who works with the C.D.C. “We’re trying to see if this is an isolated finding or is happening at other sites,” she said. At the same time, a small army of researchers across the country is testing innovative treatments, and three pharmaceutical companies plan to roll out large-scale vaccine trials. As Mr. Bocci learned, C. diff symptoms are to ordinary diarrhea as a nuke is to a homemade firecracker. “People who have open-heart surgery and take antibiotics — and then get C. diff — tell me they’d rather have the surgery again than C. diff,” said Dr. Dale Gerding, who directs the research lab at the Edward Hines Jr. Veterans Affairs Hospital in Chicago. Most cases arise after a course of antibiotics (the class called fluoroquinolones is a leading culprit) wipes out the protective microbes normally found in the colon. That allows C. diff, most commonly acquired from health care providers and facilities, to flourish and produce the toxins that cause illness. Like many diseases, it hits older people harder. They are more likely to be exposed to the spores in hospitals and nursing homes, and more likely to be prescribed antibiotics. “In the Medicare population, the rates are many times higher than in younger patients,” Dr. Gerding said. “The recurrence rate also goes up. Mortality goes up probably 10 percent with every decade.” More than 80 percent of deaths associated with C. diff occur in those over 65, according to C.D.C. data. If infection rates are indeed declining, Dr. Gerding said, one reason is that the NAP1 strain appears to be ebbing. But campaigns to reduce the overprescription of antibiotics have also gained traction. Most hospitals have established antibiotic stewardship programs to track and control their use, and new federal regulations require such programs in nursing homes, too. English researchers credit reduced antibiotic use with cutting C. diff rates by 80 percent. Patients can also play a role by not demanding unnecessary antibiotics. They are useless for many transient illnesses like respiratory infections and leave people vulnerable to pathogens. As for new treatments, experts see encouraging prospects: • In the next few weeks, the drug maker Merck will begin marketing bezlotoxumab (brand name: Zinplava), shown to reduce C. diff recurrences. A study in The New England Journal of Medicine last month reported that the drug, which uses an antibody against a C. diff toxin, reduced recurrences to 16 to 17 percent. With a placebo, the infection recurred in 26 to 28 percent of patients. The drug is expensive, at $3,800 for a one-time intravenous infusion, but Merck has said its patient-assistance program will cover Zinplava for those unable to pay. • Dr. Gerding and his team have conducted trials of an orally administered liquid containing spores of a C. diff strain that does not produce toxins or cause illness, but supplants the toxic strains. His small study of 168 patients, published in JAMA, showed that the most effective dose brought the recurrence rate down to 5 percent. (Dr. Gerding receives consulting fees from several pharmaceutical firms.) • Several dozen studies of another promising method of reducing recurrence, the gross-sounding fecal transplant, are underway at research centers. To restore healthy bacteria to a C. diff patient’s colon, doctors initially transplanted processed stool from screened, healthy donors, introducing it with colonoscopes, nasal tubes or enemas. Now, many use oral capsules. Though randomized, controlled studies are needed to evaluate fecal transplantation, Dr. William Schaffner, an infectious disease specialist at Vanderbilt University, said, “it’s been much more successful than I initially expected, and it’s become much more feasible, easier to administer.” • Vaccines may eventually prevent C. diff infection. Last year, the pharmaceutical company Sanofi began recruiting 15,000 volunteers for a Phase 3 trial of an experimental vaccine in about 20 countries. Pfizer and the French firm Valneva have also completed Phase 2 studies of possible vaccines. (After a successful Phase 3, companies can begin seeking approval from the Food and Drug Administration.) What rescued Mr. Bocci from unending C. diff, after he found his way to Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak, Mich., was a clinical trial led by the director of infectious disease research, Dr. Matthew Sims, who hopes to develop a replacement for fecal transplants. In October, over the course of an hour, Mr. Bocci took four capsules containing purified bacteria to restore the normal microbes in his colon. Three days later, he realized he was slowly starting to feel better. He may never return to his previous unrestricted diet, and he remains frightened at the prospect of needing antibiotics again someday. But he has resumed taking walks, driving and seeing a dentist. His wife has moved back into the master bedroom. “I’m getting stronger,” Mr. Bocci said. “We bought bicycles for the spring.”