 In her recent article, “Is This Dog Dangerous? Shelters Struggle With Live-or-Die Tests,” Jan Hoffman examined the behavior tests shelters use when evaluating aggression in dogs. Researchers found that some tests, like removing a food bowl while a dog is eating, are unreliable predictors of aggression in homes. Yet dogs may be euthanized if they fail. The article illustrated how shelters grapple with how to save the lives of dogs while keeping the public safe. Sometimes, this struggle is made public: Recently, Lena Dunham tussled with the shelter where she got her dog, Lamby, who was relocated to a new home because of behavior issues for which the shelter denied having previous knowledge. Readers were drawn into the debate in over 600 comments on nytimes.com, The New York Times’s Facebook post and a Times Insider piece Ms. Hoffman wrote about Elsey, a dog who was euthanized for being aggressive to other dogs but whose affection toward humans was unmistakable. Some readers agreed that tests were flawed, citing their own cuddly rescue dogs who failed the shelter’s behavior exam. Others said that tests were necessary to protect adopters, especially vulnerable family members like small children. Here is a selection of responses, which have been edited for length and clarity. Before my dog friend came to live with me, the supervisor of the local animal control shelter tried very hard to convince me that he was “unadoptable.” When he arrived at the shelter, after escaping a scandalously neglectful situation only to be caught by the cops, he was given the “food aggression” test described in the article. He failed, biting the plastic “hand” that was pulling away the first food he’d seen in a while. A little research on my part showed that the test was well known by experts to be bogus, bearing no relation to how a dog would respond in a normal household setting. Finally, after a month of arguing with them and signing all manner of waiver forms and the supervisor warning me that the dog would “tear [my] hand off” if I touched his food dish, I was able to bring him home. The first thing I did was give him some food, then slowly pull his dish away. All he did was follow the food. He didn’t bite; he didn’t even growl. So much for his “food aggression” and the test that nearly led to his being killed by the county shelter. — Dan, St. Louis Your story brought me to tears because we adopted a pit/boxer mix (Glenda) through a rescue group that looks just like Elsey, scars and all. She is a gentle, loving, obedient girl with humans (of any age), but aggressive with dogs. Glenda would have passed the human test and shown the same hackles-up, fighting stance behavior with dogs. We know how to handle her and we avoid other dogs. Elsey should not have been euthanized. Someone could have given her a home. — Glenda’s Mom, Washington, D.C. My own rescue dog Archer was one of these. He was rescued as a newborn puppy by a local rescue organization and well cared for until he was adopted by us. He was sweet and loving, but it was evident even then that he had severe anxiety. Over the next year, his anxiety increased and he became aggressive toward anything or anyone that frightened him. It got so bad that every time we went out in public we had to keep him in a muzzle. Anxiety medication and months of training did not help. Still, we were never willing to give up until he bit me on the face unprovoked. I bent down to pet him and when I stood up he lunged and got my lip. It was only then, and after much consultation with our trainer and vets, that we made the decision to euthanize. He was only 2 years old. It was the worst day of my life. While I know we made the right decision, I only wish there were more ways to help Archer and other dogs like him. We wouldn’t euthanize a mentally ill person, but we do it to dogs all the time. — Rebecca, Greensboro, N.C. We had a dog from the Humane Society. He was so sweet. Never showed any signs of aggression except once: I tried to pick a few pieces of kibble from his bowl. He didn’t bite me, but it was the only time he ever snapped at anyone. I have a kind and generous sister, but if you tried to take a French fry from her plate she might stab you with a fork. I don’t think this test is fair. — tnh2o, Tennessee I have fostered more than 130 dogs in my home (one at a time) over the last eight years, mostly Labrador retrievers. I have had to evaluate many at shelters. Yes, the shelter is a stressful, chaotic environment, but I do believe in attempting as much evaluation as possible at the shelter. Rescue groups must evaluate dogs as thoroughly as possible and have the backbone to turn down dogs that show signs of aggression. For starters, no dog with bite history should ever be taken into rescue. And when mistakes are made, rescues also must have the courage to euthanize dogs that are unsafe — or take them off the adoptable list for good. — Cynthia Beddoe, Tallahassee, Fla. I understand why shelters have to euthanize animals, but the behavior tests are very, very flawed. I adopted a cat last year, and his behavioral assessment of “tense, nervous, hisses when approached” landed him on the kill list. I pulled him out of the shelter the night before he was due to be euthanized. Clearly the nervousness was due to his confusion at suddenly being in the shelter with other frightened, and sometimes sick, cats. One year on — you could not ask for a sweeter kitty (though he is still a bit shy!). — Sharon L, New York I was on the board of a small animal shelter for a number of years. The shelter that I served had one incident in which a large dog pinned a woman to the couch in an act of vicious aggression that was not anticipated by the shelter. In response, the shelter determined that it had to take reasonable effort to screen for aggression. We were a “no kill” shelter, but dogs and cats determined to be aggressive were regretfully put down. Those who opposed any euthanasia were unable to offer alternative solutions for animals identified as aggressive. The testing was imprecise and the staff was not perfectly skilled. Undoubtedly, some dogs and cats were put down unnecessarily. But the shelter could hardly afford its liability insurance. Risk management was an essential part of legal claim reduction. The regretful truth is that the survival of the shelter is more important than the survival of any individual dog. As a lover of rescue dogs, I say this with sadness. — Ralph, Pompton Plains, N.J.