 If you’ve ever ordered a lobster tail from Red Lobster, there’s a good chance some of your meal can be traced back to swamp gas. Let me explain. Red Lobster is a major purchaser of Caribbean spiny lobster, a species that lives in coral reefs in the western Atlantic Ocean. In the 1980s, lobster fishers started constructing artificial reefs in sea grass beds throughout the Caribbean to attract these lobsters. Before long, the fishers noticed something peculiar. They were finding “piles and piles of clams” outside their makeshift lobster shelters, said Nicholas D. Higgs, a marine biologist at Plymouth University in Britain who comes from generations of lobster fishermen in the Bahamas. These clams, Dr. Higgs confirmed in a recent study, form a significant portion of the lobsters’ diet at these reefs. In a paper published on Thursday in Current Biology, Dr. Higgs and colleagues report that sea-grass-dwelling lucinid clams make up 20 percent of what Caribbean spiny lobsters eat in artificial reefs. What’s unusual about this situation (and where swamp gas comes in) is the way these clams get their food. Most food chains, we learn in grade school, start with life-forms that make their own food using light. Through photosynthesis, plants, algae and some bacteria are able to convert carbon dioxide and water into organic carbon. This magical process ultimately sustains almost all life on Earth. But it’s not the only way organisms make food from scratch. Lucinid clams get nourishment from symbiotic bacteria living in their gills. These bacteria use an alternative food-producing strategy, called chemosynthesis. Instead of relying on sunlight for fuel, they use the energy released from decomposing leaf litter in sea grass beds to turn carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide — the rotten-egg-smelling ingredient in swamp gas — into organic carbon. This “dark carbon,” so named because it is produced in the absence of light, then makes its way up the food chain, from clams, to lobsters and then to predators like sharks, turtles and you and me as we tuck into our lobster dinner on a Saturday night. This research fills in gaps from photosynthesis-based measurements of sea grass productivity, which fail to account for all the fisheries production that sea grass systems generate, said Brian R. Silliman, a professor of marine conservation biology at Duke University who was not involved in the research. “There was some carbon missing from these measurements,” he said. This study suggests “it’s coming from a spot we hadn’t suspected.” To deduce the diet of Caribbean spiny lobsters, Dr. Higgs’s team compared the chemical makeup of muscle samples from 160 lobsters to samples of different items in their diet, including algae, sea grass, sponges, shrimp and lucinid clams. In particular, the scientists looked at characteristic signatures of different elements, including sulfur. Lucinid clams specifically “have a very distinctive sulfur signature, because of the way they produce their food through sulfide-based chemosynthesis,” Dr. Higgs said. Researchers have known for decades that chemosynthesis abounds in the deep sea, where there is no light. But in recent years, studies like this one have shown that chemosynthesis may play an unexpectedly important role in shallower rivers, lakes and coastal ecosystems. Scientists knew that in sea grass beds, organisms like clams and marine worms relied on chemosynthesis, but they believed the process accounted for a relatively small amount of energy production in these habitats. Lucinid clams live 5 to 25 centimeters below the sediment, in a dense mat of tough sea grass roots. How spiny lobsters are able to dig them up remains a mystery. “People thought they just lived and died down there,” Dr. Higgs said. “Everyone assumed this was a dead end in the food chain.” Over all, this study is a big win for chemosynthesizers, underdogs among nature’s food makers. Without them, the Caribbean spiny lobster fishery, which generates more than $450 million a year, would not be as robust as it is. Next, Dr. Higgs wants to search for other species that feed on chemosynthesizers. He suspects chemosynthesis makes an underappreciated contribution to ecosystems around the world. “I think this is just the tip of the iceberg,” he said.