 Neanderthals seem stuck with unflattering reputations. The entire species of early human ancestors has long been reduced to a pejorative for describing someone who isn’t very bright, despite growing evidence of the sophistication of Homo neanderthalensis. And recent research suggests another overlooked mark of their ingenuity: they made the first glues in the form of tar. Archaeologists first found tar-covered stones and black lumps at Neanderthal sites across Europe about two decades ago. The tar was distilled from the bark of birch trees some 200,000 years ago, and seemed to have been used for hafting, or attaching handles to stone tools and weapons. But scientists did not know how Neanderthals produced the dark, sticky substance, more than 100,000 years before Homo sapiens in Africa used tree resin and ocher adhesives. Now, in a study published last Thursday in the journal Scientific Reports, a team of archaeologists has used materials available during prehistoric times to demonstrate three possible ways Neanderthals could have deliberately made tar. While the study does not prove that Neanderthals used any of these methods, it aims to demonstrate that they had access to the ingredients and means to produce tar. “There’s this popular perspective of Neanderthals as being these simple cave men and slow-type brutes,” said Paul Kozowyk, a graduate student at Leiden University in the Netherlands and lead author of the study. “This tar production, and its use for hafting, is evidence that this isn’t really true.” Mr. Kozowyk and his colleagues spent several days burning birch wood to make tar using the different methods and after each one measured how much of the black stuff they collected. The team’s first strategy was known as the “ash mound” method, and it consisted of taking a piece of birch bark, rolling it up and then covering it with ash and glowing embers. Then after about 20 minutes they removed the bark and unrolled it to find drops of tar stuck in between the bark layers, which could be easily scooped out with a stick. As simple as the method was, it yielded only about a pea-sized amount of tar. The next method was the “pit roll”. They folded a piece of birch bark like a coffee filter — an impromptu bowl — and placed it in a hole in the ground about the size of a cup. Then they placed a tightly rolled piece of bark in it and covered it in embers. As the bark got hot it created tar that dripped into the birch container. After about 40 minutes the embers burned themselves out, producing about a large coin’s worth of tar. The last and most complicated method, the “raised structure”, was similar to the pit roll. They dug a hole and used folded bark as a container. But then they put a mesh of willow twigs over the container and rested rolled bark on top. Then they covered the structure in wet soil and clay, like an igloo that they smoothed into a dome. Finally, they built a campfire around the dirt dome, heating it like an oven. This strategy produced a staggering amount of tar, about 15 to 20 times more than the first method, but it took several hours. “They could have used any of these methods because everything that we used they had available,” said Geeske Langejans an archaeologist at Leiden University and a co-author on the study. Dr. Langejans said that understanding how Neanderthals produced the adhesive may contribute to a better understanding of their intellect. “You have bark but you end up with this black, sticky substance and the two seem completely unrelated,” she said, “so the general thinking is that it requires some abstract thought to make these connections.” Sabrina Sholts, a research anthropologist at the Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of Natural History, said in an email that the study was “a nice demonstration of how experimental archaeology can be used to test theories and address questions about the ancient past.” She added that the next steps would be to see if the researchers could actually haft tools with the tar they produced. Paul Pettitt an archaeologist from Durham University in England who was not involved in the study, said in an email that the experiments helped envisage how Neanderthals could have at first accidentally discovered tar in the remains of their fires, and then adapted the substance for tool use. “It’s an important demonstration of the ability of Neanderthals to observe, experiment and learn from their environments,” he said.