 Several bills that seek to tackle the high cost of prescription drugs are moving through Congress, and the Trump administration has also signaled that it may take action. Here’s a list of the major drug-pricing proposals under consideration. A bill sponsored by Senators Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, and Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, aims to streamline the approval process for generic drugs by requiring, for example, that the Food and Drug Administration set a deadline of eight months to approve new generic drugs where there is little competition. The Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee voted this month to include the proposal in a bill that would reauthorize the industry user-fee program that funds much of the drug-approval process at the F.D.A. In the House, a proposal sponsored by Representatives Gus Bilirakis, Republican of Florida, and Kurt Schrader, Democrat of Oregon, would require the F.D.A. to work more closely with companies that want to make generic alternatives to drugs for which there is little competition. It would also give those manufacturers a six-month window during which no other generic drugmaker could compete. This month, , the health subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee voted to include that measure in its version of the user-fee bill. While both proposals address some of the practices that have grabbed headlines, critics have noted that they would leave the brand-name pharmaceutical industry unscathed. “This will have a minor impact,” said Ronny Gal, a Wall Street analyst for Bernstein who covers the drug industry. A bipartisan bill introduced by Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and others would require that drug companies give notice and provide justification whenever their prices rise by a certain amount. The brand-name pharmaceutical industry opposes it. The United States pays more for prescription drugs than virtually anywhere else. So some members of Congress, including Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, have proposed allowing Americans to import those cheaper drugs. The pharmaceutical industry said the measures could lead to the importing of unsafe drugs. The four most recent commissioners of the F.D.A. have also opposed them. The Senate health committee rejected Mr. Sanders’s proposal to include the measure in its user-fee bill this month, and without significant Republican support, the idea is not likely to gain traction. For most Americans with health insurance, drugs are covered by a pharmacy benefit manager, a company that works on behalf of insurers and large employers to negotiate with drugmakers. A bill introduced in March by Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, would require the pharmacy benefit managers to disclose the amount of rebates they negotiate with drugmakers for Medicare drug plans, among other measures. Another bill, sponsored by Representative Doug Collins, Republican of Georgia, and supported by independent pharmacy groups, would also push for more transparency. The trade group for the pharmacy benefit managers has opposed both measures, and says their secret negotiations are precisely what permits them to get better deals. The brand-name drug companies also oppose both bills. President Trump has repeatedly wondered why the United States is not allowed to negotiate the prices that it pays for Medicare, the government health care program for people who are over 65 or have disabilities. Allowing the federal government to negotiate prices for Medicare’s prescription drug program — known as Part D — has traditionally been opposed by the pharmaceutical industry, as well as Republicans. Now, several Democratic lawmakers are essentially calling Mr. Trump’s bluff: Will he buck Republican orthodoxy and back a Democratic idea? Representative Peter Welch, Democrat of Vermont, said Mr. Trump had indicated his continuing support in a meeting in March. “He’s saying the right words, but now we need the follow-through,” Mr. Welch said in a recent interview. On Thursday, Mick Mulvaney, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, said one option under consideration was to impose mandatory rebates on drugs purchased by Medicare, similar to the ones required through Medicaid, the government health care program for the poor. Dr. Scott Gottlieb, the newly confirmed commissioner of the F.D.A., has also said he is considering changes that would speed up the approval of generic drugs. “The president keeps telling me again and again and again, ‘What are we doing to fix this?’” Mr. Mulvaney said at a forum at Stanford University.