  Look, we’re not saying you can’t talk about politics at the Thanksgiving dinner table. But it’s been quite a November so far, following a seemingly never-ending campaign, and the anxiety in the air is thicker than your mom’s gravy. Some people are sitting out Thanksgiving with their loved ones altogether. Others are preparing themselves for acts of civil disagreement.  We think there’s a better way. So we’re offering a selection of some of our favorite science and health stories from 2016 that should bring together your Trump-loving uncle and your Hillary-hailing cousin for a thought-provoking, scream-free conversation. They’ll go great with white meat, dark meat or even a tofurkey.  “Another slice of pie?” they’ll ask.  “I couldn’t,” you might say.  Or maybe you’ll eat it. We don’t judge.  And that’s because we’ve been telling you all year about the complexities of the science of fat. Remember all of those people who lost a lot of pounds on “The Biggest Loser”? Many contestants struggled to keep the weight off as their bodies effectively went to war with their willpower. Serious weight loss leads to a much slower metabolism, which can result in a person needing to heavily restrict their intake of calories to maintain lower weight. We answered more of your questions about weight loss here. So as you ponder filling your plate again, remember that fat has more layers than you’d think. We’ll have more to say about the science of fat soon, and you can sign up for an email to receive the next installments. Some people have talked about fleeing the country. Others are eyeing more distant homelands, like nearby planets.  In September, Elon Musk, the electric car and solar power entrepreneur, announced his vision for a journey to Mars. By 2024, Mr. Musk and another of his companies, SpaceX, hope to launch passengers toward the red planet on a spacecraft atop a very, very large rocket. But this isn’t a one-time mission: In the next 40 to 100 years, Mr. Musk envisions a million people becoming naturalized Martians, making us a “multiplanetary species.” If you prefer an interstellar future, astronomers looking for planets in other solar systems found one that could be inhabitable. It orbits Proxima Centauri, our nearest stellar neighbor — 4.2 light years away, or only 25 trillion miles. Proxima b, as it’s known, is 1.3 times the size of Earth, and a year on the planet lasts the equivalent of 11.2 days. And it could be as hot as Venus. Maybe you’ll all agree to stay together here on Earth after considering these faraway worlds. Just remember that it’s not nice to tell someone you disagree with to get off the planet.  It’s easy to change the subject when someone talks about the good old days. Just tell them about some of the fascinating discoveries from the ancient world this year. Here are several of our favorites: • There may have been more Vikings in North America than previously believed. Using satellite imagery, archaeologists identified a potential Norse settlement in Canada. Who knows — if more Vikings had stuck around here, you might be drinking mead and eating fermented shark at the holiday table. • One thing we celebrate on Thanksgiving is the bounty at our tables. For that reason, take a moment to consider the first farmers in human history. New analysis of DNA is changing our understanding of where these first agriculturalists emerged. Researchers have also learned more about the origins of the potatoes on your plate. • Archaeologists have found more than 40 shipwrecks at the bottom of the Black Sea off Bulgaria, in “astonishingly preserved” condition. The deepwater study is one of archaeology’s greatest coups: Imagine what treasures may still be found below decks. • While you’re navigating the busiest travel days of the year, consider the ancient journeys taken to settle the remote islands of the South Pacific. New research suggests that after sailing west, early settlers were stuck during a 2,000-year pause. It wasn’t until they conquered the wind that they could call islands like Hawaii and Fiji their homes. The family dog will probably plop down near your dinner table, pleading for handouts or hoping to chomp anything that falls to the floor. Impress your relatives with some of the remarkable things we’ve learned this year about our best friends: • There are a billion dogs in the world, and three-fourths of them aren’t pets. Just don’t call these dogs “strays.” Most are scavengers well adapted to eking out a living on the margins of a world where humans rule the food chain.  • Where do they all come from? There may be more than one answer. Different wolves in different parts of Asia and Europe might have been domesticated by different people. The “tomato soup” of dog genetics makes pinpointing an answer very difficult. • Dogs don’t just hear what you say; they know what you mean. A study found that different parts of a dog’s brain process intonation and the meaning of words spoken to them. Human brains do much the same thing. • You might want think again about hugging your dog. Same goes with letting it lick your face. Not a dog person? We also told you some interesting things this year about parrots, donkeys, goldfish and even cats. Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.