 ST. KILDA, Australia — On any given night, as the sun sets at the bottom of the world, dozens to hundreds of people gather along the pier at St. Kilda Beach, just off the coast of Melbourne, Australia. Their black silhouettes punctuate the sherbet sky. But they’re not there for the sunset. They’re there for the penguins. And when only a dozen or so show up, they are disappointed. Little penguins, the smallest penguin species in the world, are supposed to return to their nests after dark. But the city lights reflecting on the water mean there is never a moment of true darkness, so St. Kilda penguins waddle in at all hours of the night. “They are fat, lazy, city penguins,” said Zoe Hogg, 81, a retired nuclear physicist and teacher who now organizes research on these penguins. And fat, lazy, city penguins are not inclined to show up on any particular schedule, even if tourists from across the world are waiting. The penguins took up residence at St. Kilda a couple of decades after Australia built a jetty of volcanic rocks known as the St. Kilda Breakwater for the 1956 Summer Olympics. For 30 years, volunteers have been conducting research on the penguins. Every two weeks, the volunteer group, Earthcare St. Kilda, ventures out onto the rocks at night to microchip the penguins and weigh them in polka-dot cotton sacks. Over the years, the researchers have found that this cosmopolitan colony stands out from the typical communities of their species in other ways as well. St. Kilda little penguins don’t go out to sea, for example. They stay close to home and nest more often because they get plenty of food in Port Phillip Bay. And since they don’t have to swim far, their flippers are shorter, too. But St. Kilda’s little penguins aren’t the only ones in Australia acting a bit differently. Southeast of St. Kilda, on Phillip Island, the parades have become bigger — and younger — as a result, researchers believe, of climate change. “In the past, they started breeding in the middle of spring,” said Andre Chiaradia, a research scientist at Phillip Island Nature Parks. “Now the breeding has advanced a month, sometimes two months, before the long-term average. By doing this, they’ve been more successful.” That’s because parents avoid dangerous summer storms that affect their ability to find food for their chicks. Some penguins even get the chance to breed twice in the same year. For now, it’s unclear how these penguins, which are top predators in the area, will affect the rest of the ecosystem. “I realize that it’s a special sort of situation here,” Dr. Chiaradia said. The Port Phillip little penguins are also breeding earlier and more often because of the abundance of food in the bay, where they fish, as well as the island’s unique location and geography, which have protected the penguins from extreme ocean temperature increases and most predators. To see the parade, go any time of year. Because the nights are longer now, so is the show — if you have the patience to wait in the cold winds from the Southern Ocean. But during the summer months of November, December and January, when the chicks should be feeding, more penguins return to shore, even if the show is shorter.