 The asteroid that smashed into the Earth near Chicxulub, Mexico, some 66 million years ago annihilated the dinosaurs and obliterated about 75 percent of all plant and animal species on Earth. The devastation affected insects living thousands of miles north and south of the impact zone as well. In western North America, earlier research found that it took nine million years for ancient insects to recover from the extinction event. But on the other side of the world, in South America’s Patagonia region, new findings suggest that the insects bounced back twice as fast. Scientists don’t know why the two regions rebounded at different rates, but studies of fossilized leaves with nibbles and bite marks from insects showed evidence of Patagonia’s speedier recovery. After examining more than 3,600 fossilized leaves from Patagonia for insect damage, researchers have concluded that it took about 4 million years for insects in South America to recover after the mass extinction event that ended the Cretaceous period. They reported their findings Monday in the journal Nature Ecology &amp; Evolution. “We found that plant-feeding insects in Patagonia recovered much faster after the asteroid that hit Mexico 66 million years ago compared to insects in the western United States,” said Michael Donovan, a graduate student in geosciences at Pennsylvania State University and lead author of the study which included researchers from Argentina. The findings suggest that ecosystems in different parts of the world repaired themselves at different rates following the asteroid impact. Like their modern-day counterparts, ancient beetles, moths, flies, wasps, grasshoppers and other insects all feasted upon plants in unique ways, leaving behind distinct patterns of damage. Some bit holes through leaves while others only munched on the top or bottom layers. Some chewed along the veins of the leaf while others chomped through it. Others used their strawlike mouthparts to pierce the leaves and suck up juices. Larvae burrowed through the leaves and created tunnel marks while eggs leave lumps in the leaves. After millions of years, the damaged leaves fossilized. Scientists can characterize and classify the leaf damage and use the patterns to gain insight into the types of insects that were present during a particular time period. Though they cannot identify what specific species caused each damage mark, by looking at the diversity of damage types occurring over the course of millions of years they can infer more generally about how insects thrived at different time periods. “Plants and insects are important parts of the food webs on land, and many other organisms rely on them for food and shelter,” said Mr. Donovan. “We can use plants and insects and their interactions to get a better idea of what’s going on with their ecosystems.” In the time before the asteroid impact there were numerous types of leaf damage in the fossil record. But immediately following the event, the numbers and types of damage dropped significantly, meaning that the insects that ate the leaves were suffering. In Patagonia it took about 4 million years for the amount and diversity of leaf damage in the fossil record to resemble what they looked like before the extinction event. The team’s next steps are to compare insect damage data from other parts of the world with that from South America to better understand how ecosystems recovered after the asteroid impact.