 Whenever you withdraw money from an automated teller machine, the A.T.M. deposits microbes onto you. That shouldn’t be surprising because germs and bacteria are everywhere: on doorknobs, subway seats, staircases, your cat, your dog, your face. You can’t avoid them, especially when you’re punching in your pin. Researchers in New York City swabbed the keypads of 66 A.T.M.s at banks, bodegas and other places across Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens. They found that A.T.M.s are mostly covered in microbes from human skin, similar to the ones found in bathrooms, on pillowcases and on televisions. They also found that in addition to leaving bits of ourselves behind whenever we touch the keypads, we also litter the machines with leftovers. Traces of chicken, fish and other seafood were among the most commonly found microbes. In Manhattan they found a mold called Xeromyces bisporus, which is associated with spoiled cakes and other baked goods. “New Yorkers love their food, it’s not that surprising,” said Jane Carlton, an urban microbiology ecologist from New York University and an author of the study, which was published Wednesday in the journal mSphere. She added that the microbes they found were pretty consistent across boroughs and stressed that the majority of the microbes they found were harmless. Gross, perhaps, but mostly harmless. To researchers like Dr. Carlton, A.T.M.s act like miniature laboratories where they can study the DNA of the city. The machines house a unique microcosm on their keypads that reflects the people who use them every day. The team did not look at touch screen A.T.M.s. The study is part of a larger research project to investigate New York City’s urban microbiome. So far, researchers have already looked at microbes on the subway system, which provide insight into people from all around the city. The A.T.M. findings, Dr. Carlton said, were “just another piece in the jigsaw puzzle of microbes in New York City.” To complete their portrait they plan to next look at the city’s pets and pests. That means swabbing cats, dogs, squirrels, pigeons, rats and cockroaches.