 The kangaroo rat is a small nocturnal seed-eater, weighing in at five ounces soaking wet, which hardly ever happens since it lives in the desert. One of its many predators is the sidewinder rattlesnake, a two-foot long viper weighing in at a little over seven ounces. The rat has sensitive ears, strong legs and big feet, the better to hear a predator and leap in the air or kick sand in its attacker’s face. The snake has venom and a speedy strike. So who wins in the never-ending evolutionary battle between predator and prey? In one recent study in a Southern California desert, rats overwhelmingly defeat snakes, escaping in all of 23 recorded attacks during 40 encounters. The recordings captured 15 different snakes, 21 identified kangaroo rats and 17 unidentified rats. Only once did a snake manage to sink its fangs in a rat deep enough to inject venom, and it wasn’t enough to stop the rat from getting away and recovering. The rats also seemed to be able to prevent strikes, by so-called “predator deterrent” actions like kicking sand at the snake, drumming its foot, jumping back or going up to investigate the snake. According to some thinking about how prey and predator interact, these actions are ways for a prey animal to show off how quick or strong it is, essentially saying, “Forget about trying to catch me, you don’t have a chance.” In the 13 encounters when rats strutted their stuff in front of sidewinders, the snakes did not attack. Other animals engage in the same kind of show off maneuvers, some biologists argue, like antelope engaging in exaggerated jumping, called stotting. When predator and prey have evolved together over eons, it may even be that this kind of display benefits a predator as well as the prey. If even a clueless, unaware kangaroo rat is fast enough to beat a sidewinder, why should the snake waste its energy on an alert, aware rat? Malachi Whitford and other researchers at San Diego State and the University of California, Davis, conducted the desert study under conditions as natural as possible. First, they caught sidewinders, implanted radio transmitters under their skin that were small enough not to slow down the snakes’ strikes, and released them back into the wild. They also captured and tagged kangaroo rats from the same region, to be better able to identify them in videotapes. Then, over two summers, they went out into the field, located snakes by their radio signals, and spread some seed around to attract kangaroo rats. They set up cameras, aimed at the snake, and left them there for the night. Mr. Whitford, a Ph.D. student supervised by Rulon Clark at San Diego State, said they compiled endless hours of snakes lying in wait with nothing happening. That’s to be expected, since sidewinders are ambush predators and that’s what they do — lie in wait. When things did happen, they happened fast. The rats were able to react in as little as 50 milliseconds, faster than the snakes, and performed acrobatic leaps and kicks. “We had no idea of how well-adapted the kangaroo rats were,” Mr. Whitford said.