 The American Medical Association, a powerful lobbying group representing the nation’s doctors, announced on Wednesday that it opposed the House Republicans’ proposed legislation to replace the federal health care law, saying it was concerned the bill “would result in millions of Americans losing coverage and benefits.” The group, which provided crucial support for the Obama administration’s contentious health care legislation before it was enacted in 2010, also sent a letter to the two House committees responsible for drafting the Republicans’ bill, called the American Health Care Act. The group’s concerns echoed some others raised this week among industry organizations like hospital groups worried about the possible losses of coverage that could result from the proposed legislation that was released on Monday. All of the major hospital groups, including the American Hospital Association, also came out against the bill. “We are very concerned that the draft legislative proposal being considered by the House committees could lead to tremendous instability for those seeking affordable coverage,” the hospitals said in a letter to Congress. The hospitals also raised concerns about Republicans’ plans to significantly alter Medicaid, which they said could result in a loss of coverage and cuts to health care services. The doctors’ main concern focused on the Republicans’ replacement of the subsidies now available to millions of low-income Americans with a flat tax credit for low- and middle-income people that is adjusted by a person’s age. The A.M.A. emphasized the need for the credits to “be sufficient to enable one to afford quality coverage,” but it also emphasized that the credits should be closely tied to an individual’s income as a way of covering more people and being a better use of taxpayer money. The doctors also voiced their opposition to the proposed rollback of Medicaid. Even as the Republicans seemingly rush to pass a bill that would undo much of the current law, the doctors and hospitals urged them to be careful about whatever changes they made. The Congressional Budget Office has not yet weighed in with estimates of how many people the new legislation will cover and what the cost of the plan might be. “As you consider this legislation over the coming days and weeks, we hope that you will keep upmost in your mind the potentially life altering impact your decisions will have on millions of Americans who may see their public, individual or even employer-provided health care coverage changed or eliminated,” wrote Dr. James L. Madara, the association’s chief executive. The A.M.A. had earlier endorsed Dr. Tom Price as President Trump’s choice to head the Department of Health and Human Services, provoking a  split with rank-and-file doctors and nurses who opposed his nomination.