 CHANTILLY, Va. — Standing before the space shuttle Discovery in a voluminous hangar outside of Washington, Vice President Mike Pence announced on Thursday a renewed focus on putting Americans in space and making a return to the moon. “We will return American astronauts to the moon, not only to leave behind footprints and flags, but to build the foundation we need to send Americans to Mars and beyond,” Mr. Pence said during a meeting of the National Space Council. The council, a group of senior federal officials that coordinates policy between NASA, the Defense Department and other agencies involved with space, was disbanded in 1993, but President Trump signed an executive order in June to reestablish it. (The meeting, which was held at the National Air &amp; Space Museum’s Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center, was streamed live on the internet). Council members include Secretary of State Rex Tillerson; Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao; Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross; General H.R. McMaster, the national security adviser; and Mike Mulvaney, director of the Office of Management and Budget. Mr. Pence did not lay out a timetable for when American astronauts would step on the moon again or propose a strategy for getting there, much less broach the topic of a price tag. In his introductory comments to the council, Mr. Pence described the United States space program as in decline, and leveled sharp criticism of the Obama administration. “Rather than competing with other nations to create the best space technology, the previous administration chose capitulation,” he said. “Have we fallen behind as we believe?” Mr. Pence asked private sector aerospace executives speaking at the session. “Is that your judgment from the outside?” The executives largely sidestepped the question. “I would say, first of all, that is very important today, that it is an imperative,” said Marillyn A. Hewson, chief executive of Lockheed Martin. She said that there was a need to be “vigilant” about protecting communications and intelligence satellites from attack, but then pivoted to talking about the economic, educational and inspirational benefits of the space program. She and Dennis A. Muilenburg, chief executive of Boeing, both said there was a need for consistent financing and steady commitment to achieve long-term objectives in space. Officials from newer space companies, Elon Musk’s SpaceX and Jeffrey P. Bezos’s Blue Origin, called for public-private partnerships rather than traditional government-run programs and called for streamlining the bureaucratic process of licensing launches. Gwynne Shotwell, president of SpaceX, far from describing a neglected space program in the United States, highlighted her company’s meteoric rise in recent years, with 13 launches in 2017. “In short, there is a renaissance underway right now in space,” she said. The focus on the moon marks an expected turn from the priorities of the Obama administration, which had downplayed the moon and instructed NASA to instead aim for an asteroid and then Mars. The approach is more of a return to the path described by President George W. Bush in 2004 and his father, President George H.W. Bush, 15 years earlier. Both times, the initiatives petered out. Since the last Apollo moon landing in 1972, no astronauts have traveled beyond low-Earth orbit. Mr. Pence suggested that private industry might play a larger role in a moon mission this time. “To fully unlock the mysteries of space, President Trump recognizes that we must look beyond the halls of government for input and guidance,” he said. In a Wall Street Journal opinion article published on Wednesday where Mr. Pence addressed similar themes, he made zero mention of NASA. What will change in practice under the Trump administration is unclear. Although the Obama administration downplayed sending NASA astronauts to the moon, it did support commercial start-ups seeking to send robotic landers there, and Mr. Pence said that the longer-term goal of getting astronauts to Mars remains. Phillip Larson, a former White House space adviser in the Obama administration and now an assistant dean at the University of Colorado engineering school disagreed with Mr. Pence’s criticism. He pointed to SpaceX’s success and billions of dollars of private investment in space ventures in recent years. “That type of activity is what the Obama administration worked to promote and create and foment a whole new industry,” said Mr. Larson, who did not attend the meeting. He said it was also too early to tell whether the Trump administration’s space efforts would succeed. “It was just very interesting to do this type of process without a NASA administrator or a science adviser in the White House,” he said. “Until they produce a plan, which it looks like they’re moving toward, this is mostly theater and produces a little bit of confusion, I think. I still remain optimistic.” The Senate has not yet held confirmation hearings for Jim Bridenstine, an Oklahoma congressman nominated last month to be the next NASA administrator. President Trump has yet to name a science adviser. John Logsdon, a former director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University, was more positive, noting that administration had chosen to hold its first meeting publicly at a high-profile venue to draw more attention. “Words are the first step to action,” he said. Are the words different this time? Dr. Logsdon paused. “No,” he replied wistfully.