 To the Editor: Re “The Aliens Below Us” (Sept. 13): Kudos to you and your staff for the prominence of women in both the photographs and quotes within the article. As a 30-something female engineer, I am sensitive to images of women in STEM fields and professions, and seeing a headline photograph of two women with ponytails in hard hats collecting samples — and subsequent photos and quotes of women throughout the article — is wonderful. Though women in hard hats in nothing new, for The Times to place such a photograph so distinctly without any comment about gender feels like a triumph. The very casualness of the equality of women in this article gives me great hope for the next generations of female scientists. Rebecca Barone, Centerville, Ohio To the Editor: Re “Writing a ‘Last Letter’ ” (Well, Sept. 13): When my now-late brother-in-law and I were working on his obituary, he wanted to include a special salute to one of his grandchildren. I cautioned him that focusing on one to the exclusion of five others could make for a difficult relationship among them all after their grandfather died. I suggested, instead, that he write a private letter to that one young man and leave it for him for afterward. In that way, it would not just be a tribute but an intimate connection in the years to come. He did just that! Norma Orovitz, Bay Harbor Islands, Fla. To the Editor: Right before my almost 99-year-old mother, Dorothea Wetherbee Lawrence, died in March, she gave me this card that her maternal grandmother, Mary Ellen McCoy James, had handwritten on April 26, 1940. What Mary Ellen wrote remains extremely powerful: “When I pass on I can say that the world has been good to me and doesn’t owe me anything. I try to be what those who love me think I am. Mother.” I treasure this sentiment, as my mother and her grandmother did. Thea Volpe-Browne,  Jersey City, N.J. To the Editor: Re: “Cruising Down a Road of Waste and Danger” (Sept. 13) The interview focuses upon “When we use cars, how to make life safer?” This is an important question, and Edward Humes has some good ideas. But there’s another critical question that the interview misses: “How to change the world so that we use cars less?” A key answer here is to design land use policies so that more of us can conveniently use other forms of transportation (walking, biking, transit) for more of our trips; this would require concentrating new growth in walkable, transit-served, attractive, mixed-use, mixed-income, high-density neighborhoods. And — to entice more people to try them — those other transportation options need to be sufficiently attractive, convenient and safe. In short, to address the desire for easy “door to door” transportation, let’s design our communities so that the most comfortable “door to door” journey does not always include the automobile. David W. Sears, Bethesda, Md. The writer is the Chair of the Sierra Club, Montgomery County MD Group.