 Ice from the Canadian Arctic has completely melted, leaving puddles of water in its place and scientists devastated. O.K., this is what actually happened: Ice cores, millennia-old ice samples extracted by scientists from locations across the Canadian Arctic, melted because of a freezer malfunction in a lab at the University of Alberta in Edmonton. The loss of these ice cores could hinder scientific research into how changes in the atmosphere have shaped Earth’s climate history, and how they could affect its future. On April 2, the temperature of a storage freezer in the Canadian Ice Core Archive rose to about 100 degrees — some part of the cooling system failed, “then tried to get itself back into action and in the process, piped hot air back into the room,” according to Martin Sharp, the director of the archive. The freezer became so hot that it tripped the fire alarm, Dr. Sharp said, and partially or fully melted 180 ice cores collected by government scientists since the mid-1970s from the snowy expanse of the Canadian Arctic. Dr. Sharp, also a glaciology professor at the university, said there was water all over the floor, and steam rising from puddles of ancient water. Ice cores, which are long cylinders scientists extract from glaciers, ice sheets or ice caps, contain gas bubbles, pollen, dust particles, or chemical isotopes that give scientists clues about what Earth’s temperature and atmosphere were like when the ice caps first formed. The archive contains 12 cores, which are stored in more than 1,400 one-meter segments, containing about 80,000 years of atmospheric history. The cores that were lost accounted for about 12 percent of the collection, and while they leave gaps in the record, none of the 12 main cores were wholly destroyed. Dr. Sharp said the archive has been used in the past to assist research into long-term climate history and atmospheric pollution, specifically from trace metals. However, he said that technologies have been developed since the cores were first collected that could yield much more information from the collection as a whole, such as about specific weather events, reconstructing sea ice variability, and when pollution from East Asia began crossing the Pacific to affect western Canada. While the loss of the cores will not affect the ability to research these phenomena, valuable information was lost: Some of the oldest ice cores from Mount Logan, Canada’s tallest mountain, and some from Baffin Island’s Penny Ice Cap, which contained 22,000 years’ worth of atmospheric information, were entirely or partially destroyed. Luckily, the oldest ice in the collection, from the last continental ice sheet that covered North America, was put into a different freezer, Dr. Sharp said. “For anybody who has an ice core collection, melting is a perennial fear, and you don’t find out that it’s happened until too late,” Dr. Sharp said. But the university is taking steps to make sure they have a better alarm system, in case it ever does. For the moment, Dr. Sharp does not yet know if he and his team will be able to go back to the Arctic to take more cores and replace the samples that were lost. “Some of these ice caps are disappearing,” he said, “and we’re going to lose this record, in some cases sooner rather than later.”