 On Monday, I will be one of millions watching the moon punch a hole in the sun during the Great American Eclipse of 2017. In preparation, I’ve been thinking about how I want to spend my roughly two minutes of totality, when day surrenders, briefly, to coronal night. Should I try to capture my experience with photos? Or should I soak in the moment as deeply as I can? These two goals may not actually be in opposition, according to a study in this month’s issue of Psychological Science. In several experiments, researchers found that taking photos during an experience helped people remember visuals more accurately, even when they didn’t revisit their photos. However, snapping pictures also appeared to decrease how much spoken information people retained. The results follow research published last year by the same group, which found that photo-taking made people more engaged with experiences, leading them to enjoy positive events more than people who didn’t take pictures. By some estimates, people around the world will take 1.3 trillion photos this year. “It’s a thing that’s taking over our lives,” said Alix Barasch, one of the authors and an assistant professor at the New York University Stern School of Business, “yet nobody has really studied the psychological effects of taking pictures.” In the recent study, Dr. Barasch and colleagues asked people to walk through a museum exhibit while listening to an audio guide, and either take photos freely or leave their phones and cameras outside. Afterward, when given a memory test, those who took pictures better recalled objects they had seen, but were less able to remember facts from the audio guide, than those who didn’t take pictures. Focusing on visuals pulls our attention away from other senses, like hearing, Dr. Barasch explained. In related experiments, participants toured virtual art galleries with the option to take onscreen snapshots. The researchers found similar gains in memory when participants were asked to take screenshots compared with conjuring mental images. The findings suggest that the process of looking around for what to photograph “actually causes you to encode visual content and remember it,” Dr. Barasch said. Michael C. Hout, an assistant professor of psychology at New Mexico State University, questioned the practical importance of the findings. While the observed effects on memory were statistically significant, taking photos might mean “you remember 2 or 3 percent better,” he said. However, Linda Henkel, a professor of psychology at Fairfield University, thought the study was noteworthy because it challenges the popular assumption that taking photos is often a distraction. Dr. Barasch said she too initially suspected that casual photography was removing people from the moment. “But as we collected more and more data over the course of five or six years, we kept finding that photo taking was actually immersing people more in experiences,” she said. There’s an important caveat: In research that hasn’t been published yet, her group found that taking pictures with the primary goal of sharing them on social media can counteract the positive effects of deeper engagement and memory. “Now you’re concerned about taking the perfect picture to get all the likes and comments,” which can increase anxiety, she said. As for whether I should take photos during the eclipse, Dr. Barasch encouraged me to go for it — as long as I’m doing it for myself, and not to elicit reactions on Instagram or Snapchat. I suspect the decision will come to me in the final moments. Veteran eclipse chasers warn against wasting totality getting photos, and I know my amateur photography skills won’t do the sky justice. But taking just a few photos or videos to document the mood around me, as the horizon becomes a 360-degree sunset, the wind picks up, people gasp and maybe even birds or crickets start chirping? That’s something I might get joy out of in the moment, and for years to come.