 The Jurassic Park movies portrayed a prehistoric soundscape filled with brachiosaurus bellows, velociraptor shrieks and Tyrannosaurus rex roars. But because paleontologists have never found fossilized vocal organs from any of those dinosaurs, we don’t really know what their world sounded like. A new study of a 66-million-year-old bird may provide insight into some of the noises possibly heard at the end of the dinosaur era. Researchers studying the fossilized remains of an Antarctic waterfowl called Vegavis iaai discovered within its chest the oldest known avian voice box, called a syrinx. The finding, published Wednesday in Nature, suggests that the ancient bird “honked” and “quacked” like today’s geese and ducks. Mammals like humans and reptiles like crocodiles make noises by vibrating vocal folds in their larynxes, which is in the back of the throat. But for birds, their chirps, squawks and tweets come from a specially-evolved organ called the syrinx, which is in the windpipe where it branches into the left and right lungs. “It’s essentially like having your voice box deep in your chest right next to the heart,” said Julia Clarke, a paleontologist from the University of Texas at Austin, and lead author of the study. The syrinx is hard to find in ancient bird specimens because it is made of calcified cartilage that does not typically fossilize well. Only a handful that are older than a few million years old have ever been found. It took nearly two decades to uncover the syrinx in this specimen, and Dr. Clarke said she did not set out to discover it. Vegavis iaai was originally found on Vega Island in Antarctica in 1992 by Argentine researchers. Years later, they gave it to Dr. Clarke to analyze. She and her team classified it in 2005. In 2013 while Dr. Clarke was coincidentally working on a project on the evolution of dinosaur and bird vocalization, she decided to take another look at the specimen’s vertebrae before returning it. Embedded in the rock, she discovered the syrinx. “I was like ‘Oh my gosh.’ I couldn’t believe it. We had been asking this question ‘What would fossil data look like that could add to our understanding of avian sound making?’” she said. “And then I’m rechecking a specimen in my lab that I had for five years, and there it is. That was kind of crazy.” Using CT scans, she compared the ancient syrinx to that of 12 other modern birds as well as another ancient fossil, and found that the organ was most closely related to those seen in ducks and geese. The finding suggests that birds, which are living dinosaurs, evolved the organ relatively late in their evolutionary line. The authors also concluded that it’s possible that because no nonavian dinosaur specimen has ever been found with a syrinx, those dinosaurs most likely did not make honking noises. She and her colleagues suggested in a previous study that nonavian dinosaurs may have made booming sounds like ostriches. “We don’t see a syrinx or anything like a syrinx in the nonavian dinosaurs, and we have an amazing fossil record,” said Patrick O’Connor, a professor of anatomy at Ohio University who wrote an accompanying article in the issue of Nature. He said that although the research does not completely rule out the possibility that nonavian dinosaurs had these organs, the finding might encourage more researchers to be on the lookout for syrinxes in the fossil record. “People will think differently now when they are studying their fossils,” he said. Joel Cracraft, the Lamont curator at the American Museum of Natural History’s department of ornithology who was not involved in the study, praised the team’s discovery of the ancient syrinx. “Paleontologists call some of these types of fossils roadkill because they are flattened in the strata and they’ve lost some of their elements,” he said. “But they used the very best of technology to get out very incredible detail. This is the best, and practically the only, comparative analysis of syrinx in all of these early modern birds.”