 Try having no arms and eating a live octopus that’s crawling around on your head with its tentacles. Failure could mean it’s your last supper. But a population of bottlenose dolphins off the coast of Australia has found a way to do it. “These ones in southwest Australia have worked out: How do we catch them? How do we bite them? And how do we kill them so we can eat them?” said Kate Sprogis, a behavioral ecologist at Murdoch University in Australia who with her colleagues described the behavior in a study published last month in Marine Mammal Science. The recipe is as follows: Bite off the head. Shake the body. Toss until the arms are tenderized and the suction cups no longer function. Slam the body against the water repeatedly until it breaks into bite-sized pieces. Steps may be varied. Enjoy. The estimated preparation time ranges between one and six minutes. Scientists know that dolphins all over the world eat octopus, but no one had documented how they manage such a difficult meal. Between 2007 and 2013, Dr. Sprogis and her colleagues documented 45 octopus-handling events off the coast of Bunbury, Australia. It’s astonishing, she said, because dolphins risk their lives to eat the octopus. In 2012 in Greece, an octopus latched onto a dolphin’s genitals. And just a few weeks ago in Australia, an octopus clung to a dolphin’s back, dangerously close to its blowhole. In 2015, a dolphin in Bunbury known as Gilligan suffocated while trying to eat an octopus with tentacles more than four feet long. Why go through all the effort? Dr. Sprogis thinks dolphins seek out octopus opportunistically, or when they need nutrients they can’t find elsewhere. According to the study, octopus-eating peaked in winter and spring when water in this area may be choppy, with less visibility, perhaps making a dolphin’s sneak attack more successful. Curiously, this is also octopus mating season, which may mean they’re more vulnerable to attack. Octopuses can spend about a month slowly dying after mating or brooding their eggs, which could make them easier targets, Dr. Sprogis speculated. The scientists were able to document only the behavior above water, and want to know what happens below the surface. They also want to know how widespread this octopus-tossing is. Whatever they’re doing, Dr. Sprogis is sure about one thing: In a battle of dolphin vs. octopus, she’ll put her money on the dolphin.