 One day when L. J. Krumenacker was a teenager, he left his home to hunt for fossils. He drove about an hour and a half to Paris Canyon in Bear Lake County in southeastern Idaho and stopped at a foothill covered in sagebrush. Mr. Krumenacker got out of his car, picked up the first large rock he saw and smashed it with a hammer, uncovering seven or eight fossilized shark teeth. “I did a double take. I thought, ‘No, this is impossible.’ But they really were shark teeth,” Mr. Krumenacker said. “Immediately I thought this spot was important because you don’t go out and randomly find 250-million-year-old shark teeth on accident.” What Mr. Krumenacker didn’t know was that he had stumbled upon a fossil treasure trove that contained clues to how life bounced back after the largest mass extinction on Earth. The cataclysmic event, known as “the Great Dying,” occurred about 252 million years ago, ending the Permian Period. It was more devastating than the event that annihilated the dinosaurs some 186 million years later. Scientists think it may have been caused by intense volcanic activity that released tremendous amounts of carbon dioxide, heating the planet and acidifying the oceans. And the fossils Mr. Krumenacker first stumbled upon in Paris Canyon may be a sign that life on Earth recovered much more quickly than previously known. “Something in the neighborhood of 90 percent of species went extinct,” said Daniel Stephen, a paleontologist at Utah Valley University and an author of the paper that appeared in Science Advances on Wednesday. “Just imagine you go outside, look around you and nine out of 10 of every life form you see around you have vanished.” Though Mr. Krumenacker believed the fossil site was important, it took him more than a decade to draw professional paleontologists to Idaho. Since his first find, Mr. Krumenacker, who is now a doctoral student at Montana State University, made frequent trips back to the Paris Canyon site and uncovered shrimp and sponge fossils. These soft-bodied specimens typically don’t fossilize well, but the ones he collected were pristinely preserved. They were just the discoveries he needed to attract the attention of other paleontologists and finally organize a professional dig. Now, about 20 years after Mr. Krumenacker found the shark teeth, he and a team of researchers have identified more than 750 individual specimens at Paris Canyon, including ancient squids, lobsters, fish and other marine creatures. By dating the rocks at the site, they determined that the location was part of a thriving underwater ecosystem some 250 million years ago, only about 1.3 million years after the Great Dying. Most previous research had suggested that it took between 10 million and 20 million years for ecosystems to recover. “To build these diverse ecosystems, you’re almost starting from scratch from the mass extinction event,” Dr. Stephen said. “The information that my colleagues and I have gathered tell us that at least in some places the recovery was relatively rapid.” The marine life at this location may have been as bustling and flourishing as a healthy coral reef today. There would have been seven-foot-long sharks swimming among squidlike creatures with tentacles that had hooks, and armored cephalopods with coiled shells called ammonites sharing the sea with mollusks in shells shaped like ice cream cones. There might have also been dolphinlike marine reptiles called ichthyosaurs and schools of bony fish. The ocean floor would have been covered in scavenging shrimp and lobsters, as well as sponges, clams and ancient starfish relatives that stood on stems and resembled underwater flowers. “It’s fairly remarkable just because it’s so diverse,” Mr. Krumenacker said. “You’re roughly a million years after the worst extinction in the history of the planet and we have this diverse ecosystem. It’s much earlier than people thought.”