 Serious and fatal bouts of malaria in the United States are a greater problem than has been previously reported, according to a new study. Most appear to be in immigrants who have made summer or Christmas visits to their home countries without taking precautions against infection. The typical victim appears to be a man ranging in age from 20 to 50 who is from Africa or the Caribbean, said the lead author, Diana Khuu, an epidemiologist at the Fielding School of Public Health at the University of California, Los Angeles. But among the hospitalized women, an unusually high number — 14 percent — were pregnant. Because pregnancy lowers immune defenses, malaria can be lethal to both mother and fetus. Although the study was based on hospital data rather than interviews with patients, the authors suspect that many of the victims grew up in malarial areas, developed immunity in childhood from repeated infections, and then did not realize that their childhood immunity had disappeared after years in the United States. “They just think they’re going home, so they don’t have to prepare for anything,” Dr. Khuu said. The fact that malaria immunity wanes after a few years away from repeated exposure is well-known to malaria experts, but not common knowledge, so immigrants may not get prescriptions for anti-malaria drugs before traveling or sleep under mosquito nets in a malarial area. Although world malaria deaths have dropped about 60 percent since 2000, the disease kills about 429,000 people each year. Most are children under 5 in Africa. The authors analyzed about 100 million hospital discharge records for 2000 to 2014 in the National Inpatient Sample of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, part of the Department of Health and Human Services. The study was published Monday by The American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. The authors counted 22,000 patients hospitalized for malaria, about five times as many as were hospitalized, for example, for dengue fever, another mosquito-borne tropical disease. Nearly 5,000 of them had serious complications like kidney failure or coma, and 182 died. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has estimated there are about 1,500 to 2,000 cases of malaria a year in the United States, while the study concluded there are at least 2,100. The C.D.C. estimates are based on reports sent in by doctors and laboratories, and many doctors do not realize that they are obligated to report all cases to state health authorities, Dr. Khuu said. Case counts were greatest in East Coast cities, some of which have many immigrants from Africa and the Caribbean. Among hospitalized patients whose races were recorded, more than half were black; 60 percent were male and the peak age range was 25 to 44, the study found. Whites were the second-largest racial group and Asians the third. Countries of origin were not recorded, but C.D.C. records suggest that many travelers to India get malaria while on family visits, Dr. Khuu said. Cases peaked in August and again in January, suggesting that they were linked to summer and Christmas visits, Dr. Khuu said.