 Call it a cosmic consolation prize. While the United States is preparing for a total solar eclipse in a few weeks, most of Asia, Africa, Europe, Australia and Antarctica will receive their own celestial show: a partial lunar eclipse on Monday night. (It will be Tuesday in East Asia and Australia.) Lunar eclipses are basically the opposite of solar eclipses. Rather than the moon moving in between Earth and the sun, as will happen Aug. 21, during a lunar eclipse it’s Earth that plays “monkey in the middle,” casting its shadow on the moon. Earth’s shadow has two parts: the umbra, which is the darker inner portion, and the penumbra, the lighter outer part. Their interactions with the moon can create three types of lunar eclipses: partial, total and penumbral. During a partial lunar eclipse, only part of Earth’s umbra covers the moon. This is because the alignment of sun-Earth-moon is not perfect, and Earth’s shadow instead appears to take only a bite out of the moon rather than engulf it completely. Sky gazers will notice that a portion of the moon’s face has turned dark as it enters the umbra. In a total lunar eclipse, the moon, Earth and sun align so that Earth’s umbra entirely covers the moon, turning its face an eye-catching dark red or brown. A penumbral eclipse occurs when the moon is obscured by the thinnest parts of Earth’s shadow, causing a subtle change in its color that often only the astute sky gazer will notice. The partial lunar eclipse on Monday will last about two hours, from the moment the moon enters the umbra to when it exits, and will be at its darkest around 18:20 Coordinated Universal Time, or 2:20 p.m. Eastern, according to NASA. (That’s 7:20 p.m. in London, 8:20 p.m. in Paris, 9:20 p.m. in Nairobi, Kenya, and 11:50 p.m. in New Delhi on Monday, and 2:20 a.m. in Hong Kong, 3:20 a.m. in Tokyo, and 4:20 a.m. in Sydney, Australia, on Tuesday.) For about half the world, it will look as if the bottom quarter of the moon is blackened. It’s no coincidence that the partial lunar eclipse and the total solar eclipse are happening so close together, according to Jackie Faherty, an astronomer with the American Museum of Natural History. “This is the continuation of a cycle,” she said. “You get lunar eclipses when you have full moons, and you have solar eclipses when you have new moons.” Solar and lunar eclipses happen in pairs, with one preceding the other usually by two weeks. But part of the reason you don’t see a lunar eclipse or solar eclipse every month is that the moon’s orbit is tilted about five degrees off from Earth’s orbit, according to Dr. Faherty. It’s this misalignment, she said, that prevents us from experiencing a celestial shadow dance every month with the new and full moons.