 Dogs have evolved to be friendly and tolerant of humans and one another, which might suggest they would be good at cooperative tasks. Wolves are known to cooperate in hunting and even in raising one another’s pups, but they can seem pretty intolerant of one another when they are snapping and growling around a kill. So researchers at the Wolf Science Center at the University of Vienna decided to compare the performance of wolves and dogs on a classic behavioral test. To get a food treat, two animals have to pull ropes attached to different ends of a tray. The trick is that they have to pull both ropes at the same time. Chimps, parrots, rooks and elephants have all succeeded at the task. When Sarah Marshall-Pescini, Friederike Range and colleagues put wolves and dogs to the test, wolves did very well and dogs very poorly. In recordings of the experiments, the pairs of wolves look like experts, while the dogs seem, well, adorable and confused. The researchers reported their findings in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. With no training, five of seven wolf pairs succeeded in mastering the task at least once. Only one of eight dog pairs did. With individual training intended to show the animals that if both ropes were held in the mouth, they could get the treat, three of four wolf pairs succeeded multiple times. Two of six dog pairs succeeded — once. Dr. Marshall-Pescini said both wolves and dogs were raised in exactly the same conditions at the center, where they live in groups with a lot of human contact but are not kept as pets. The reason for wolves performing much better, she said, might be that in the wild they must cooperate in bringing down big game and sharing it if they are to survive. Dogs, whether they are free-ranging, foraging at garbage dumps or looking for discarded food, don’t need teamwork. But defining tolerance, which is supposed to aid cooperation, is tricky. “Wolves argue a lot around food,” she said. “But in the end they eat together.” As for dogs, she said, “They don’t even argue about it.” An earlier study of free-ranging dogs, she said, showed that the dominant dog ate first and other dogs waited. Of course, pet dogs often eat together with two bowls. And dogs can be trained to do just about anything; even the act of training may change their ability to cooperate. In a previous study, dogs that had been highly trained — not at the rope pull test, but for other tasks — were much better able to succeed at the rope pull.