 WASHINGTON — Arkansas will be the third state to require many Medicaid recipients to work or train for jobs, after the Trump administration granted it permission on Monday. But the administration held off on approving another request from the state that could have much broader consequences for the future of the program — a proposal to cut back the expansion of Medicaid that was instituted under the Affordable Care Act. Seema Verma, the Trump appointee who oversees Medicaid, did not elaborate when asked twice about the delay at a news conference with Gov. Asa Hutchinson in Little Rock. She said only: “We are still working through some issues in that particular area.” She and Mr. Hutchinson, a Republican, sought instead to emphasize the momentum that work requirements have gathered in the two months since Ms. Verma issued guidance to states allowing them to insist that many people work or prepare for jobs as a condition of keeping their Medicaid coverage. Ms. Verma said eight additional states had submitted work proposals and nine others had signaled interest in the requirements, the first such limits in the more than 50 years since the program was created to provide health insurance to poor Americans. Mr. Hutchinson, who is running for re-election, exhibited the zeal with which Republicans have pursued work requirements this year, saying he expected to roll out Arkansas’s even before the states that already won approval to do so, Kentucky and Indiana. “We are ready with our systems,” Mr. Hutchinson said, noting the state had been preparing for more than a year. “This will be going fairly quickly.” The Arkansas work requirements are somewhat softer than those of the other two states. People younger than 50 will be expected to work, or to train or search for jobs; attend school full time or volunteer — 80 hours a month. Kentucky and Indiana are imposing the requirement on people younger than 65 and 60, respectively. But Arkansas’s plan has harsher consequences for not meeting the requirement: those who do not comply for three months out of a year will be locked out of coverage until the following year. “This is not about punishing anyone,” Mr. Hutchinson said. “It’s about giving people an opportunity to work. It’s about giving them the training they need. It’s about helping them move out of poverty and up the economic ladder.” So far, only one other state, Massachusetts, has joined Arkansas in seeking permission to roll back its Medicaid expansion, and make the program available only to people with incomes below the federal poverty level: $12,060 for a single person, or about twice that amount for a family of four. Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, states that chose to expand Medicaid had to provide it to everyone with incomes up to 138 percent of that level: $16,642 for a single person. But if the Trump administration allows Arkansas to scale back its Medicaid expansion population, some of the other 31 states that expanded the program will likely want to follow, as a way to save money and appease conservative legislators who think the Obamacare expansion went too far. Other states may be tempted to expand Medicaid, after holding back for years, if they can limit it to those earning at or below the poverty level. The federal government initially paid the full cost of the expansion, but now states are on the hook for 6 percent of the cost; their share will gradually grow to 10 percent over the next few years. The Arkansas proposal would move about 60,000 people out of the program, by lowering the income threshold to the federal poverty level. Mr. Hutchinson wants those earning between 100 and 138 percent of the poverty level to move to the Affordable Care Act marketplace, where they would get federal subsidies to buy private insurance. But that could end up costing the federal government more money — another reason the Trump administration may be slow to approve it. President Trump frequently refers to the marketplaces as “failing” and has taken a number of steps to weaken them. Regardless, Mr. Hutchinson said Monday he was optimistic about winning approval to shrink the expansion population after meeting recently with Alex Azar, the new Health and Human Services secretary. Mr. Hutchinson has long been under pressure from conservative Republicans in the Arkansas legislature who say the Medicaid expansion has proved too expensive, with far more people enrolling than originally estimated. Arkansas is anticipating spending about $136 million in general revenue on its Medicaid expansion in the coming fiscal year, with the federal government spending an additional $2 billion. The state uses federal Medicaid funds to buy private insurance for the poor — an alternative that conservative Republicans found acceptable when it was first passed in 2013. About 285,000 people are now enrolled in the Medicaid expansion. Cindy Gillespie, the director of the Arkansas Department of Human Services, said the state was planning to activate an online portal on March 30 where those subject to the requirement will be expected to record how they’re meeting it each month. In June, the state will start phasing it in, relying largely on its Department of Workforce services to connect job seekers with employment, education or training. Kentucky, for its part, is sending out the first notices about its work requirement this week and plans to start rolling it out in July. Indiana will not roll out its work requirement until next year. Like Kentucky and Indiana, Arkansas will exempt people who qualify as “medically frail” from the work requirement, as well as those who are pregnant, in treatment for substance abuse, in school full time or caring for children or someone incapacitated. Nor will those who qualified for Medicaid before the Obamacare expansion — children and disabled or elderly adults — be subject to it. Only people from the ages of 30 through 49 will be subject to the requirement this year, and state officials have estimated that about 60 percent of them — 59,714 out of 98,632 — either work already or will qualify for exemptions. Younger enrollees, down to the age of 19, will be subject to the work requirement starting next year. The National Health Law Program, a nonprofit advocacy group that has already sued to stop Kentucky’s work requirement, said Monday that Arkansas’s also “appears well outside the bounds of the limited authority” that the Department of Health and Human Services has to change Medicaid provisions. “The state’s work requirement program, beyond being legally suspect, will disproportionately harm the most underserved populations,” said Jane Perkins, the program’s legal director.