 Greetings, human. Have you met the humped bladderwort? This unusual plant grows pretty, yellow flowers, and it has no roots to hold it down. To get the nutrients it needs, it spends its time floating in lakes and waterways eating miniature crustaceans, called water fleas, and other things. It operates sort of like an aquatic Venus flytrap, but a hundred times faster. It feeds by dangling tiny vacuous sacs from its stems into the water. These bladders, just a few millimeters big (with walls only two cells thick), are normally filled with water. But when the trap is set, the plant pumps the water out, creating a vacuum and a mouth, which is covered in tiny hairs. “When a prey animal stimulates those trigger hairs — whoosh,” said Victor Albert, an evolutionary plant biologist at the State University of New York, University at Buffalo. The bladderwort can trap dinner in less than a millisecond. More than just a remarkable carnivorous plant, in genetic terms, it is a minimalist. It has the smallest reliably sequenced genome of any flowering plant. Inside that genome, it carries only the stuff it needs to function as a plant and uphold its strange identity. But its envious life took millions of years of evolutionary refinement, according to a study published by Dr. Albert and his colleagues on Monday in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. With new tools that allowed researchers to observe the plant’s genome more closely than ever before, they were able to see just what type of genetic changes created this flesh-eating plant. The KonMari method of tidying up, based on a best-selling book written by Marie Kondo, involves going through all your possessions item by item and chucking each one that doesn’t bring you joy. If the humped bladderwort were a person, it would be a KonMari master. But instead of keeping items that produce joy, it held onto genes that produce function — the stuff that allows it to develop and live as a plant and the extra stuff that allows it to trap and digest animal proteins. Throughout its evolutionary history, the bladderwort acquired its curated genetic possessions in a couple of ways. During rare polyploid events, a screw-up in the reproductive process caused the whole genome to duplicate at once. This happened two or three times over the 10 million or 20 million years the plant has been on this planet. And during tandem events, a chunk of DNA duplicated itself, placing its new twin beside it along the genome, in another, more frequent accident in reproduction. During the process, genetic junk that didn’t serve a purpose was expunged, and the necessary stuff was kept. Dr. Albert and his colleagues identified these moments in the bladderwort genome and determined that these major events produced genes responsible for essential developmental and physiological plant functions — like responding to light and growing flowers. And the smaller events, in many cases, produced genes associated with being carnivorous — like the ones that make papain, an enzyme in meat tenderizer. Similar tandem events made it possible for the coffee plant to synthesize caffeine. At the bladderwort’s earliest point, Dr. Albert believes carnivory was a defense mechanism. For example, like the caffeine originally produced to deter herbivores from eating coffee leaves, certain digestive enzymes may have been produced to deter animals and fungi from eating bladderworts. “But in the end they repurposed this to actually chew on those guys instead,” Dr. Albert said. The minimalist bladderwort doesn’t just provide a model for looking at other carnivorous plants. It offers a meditation on simplicity and appreciation for what makes humanity special, too.