 Researchers have long known that social class is one of the most powerful predictors of health, more powerful than genes, smoking, alcohol intake, or other health risks. The lower a person is on the social ladder — as measured by income, education and other markers of relative status — the higher the risk of heart disease, cancer, diabetes, psychiatric disorders and a host of other illnesses. One recent study based on income data from 1.4 billion tax records found that people in the top 1 percent income bracket had life expectancies that were as much as 10 to 15 years longer than those in the bottom 1 percent. But investigators do not know for sure whether lower social status, which often comes with less access to health care, a lack of control over one’s life circumstances and a variety of other stresses, causes people to end up sicker, or whether being less healthy leads to lower social status. And although researchers have speculated how social class might influence health, they still have little evidence for what those mechanisms might be. The answers to these questions are unlikely to come from studies of humans, since human subjects cannot be randomly assigned to a social class or moved up and down the social ladder to see what happens. Nonhuman primates, however, are a different story. In the Nov. 25 issue of the journal Science, a team of researchers reports that for 45 female rhesus monkeys, their relative position in the dominance hierarchy altered the functioning of their immune systems, with lower ranked monkeys showing lower levels of some types of disease-fighting cells. The shift in immune system functioning, the researchers found, was mediated by the turning on and off of immune cell genes. And when a monkey moved up or down — artificially manipulated in the study by reorganizing the animals into different groups — the pattern in which the genes were turned on and off changed as well. “There was nothing intrinsic about these females that made them low status versus high status,” said Noah Snyder-Mackler, a postdoctoral researcher at Duke University who lead the study. “But how we manipulated their status had pervasive effects on their immune system.” In particular, a lower position in the dominance hierarchy, which exposed a monkey to harassment by higher status animals, was associated with genes responsible for immune cells that produce inflammation. The lower a female monkey’s rank, the more inflammation-related genes were turned on. Cells taken from lower status females in the study were also more likely to show an inflammatory response when they were exposed to a bacterial compound than those from high status monkeys. In humans, chronic inflammation has been associated with chronic stress and is suspected of increasing a person’s risk for illnesses from heart disease to Alzheimer’s. Inflammation is normally the body’s way of trying fight off disease-causing organisms, said Jenny Tung, a professor of evolutionary anthropology at Duke and the study’s senior author. “But inflammation can be there even when it’s not supposed to be,” she said, “and that’s when a weapon that used to fight disease becomes a problem for your own cells.” In the study the monkeys were placed in groups of five for a year, during which they established a firm dominance hierarchy. The groups were then shifted around, and the monkeys established new hierarchies, where their relative positions were higher or lower than before. The new findings add support to the idea that the chronic stress that attends lower status may play a role in predisposing people to illness. In monkeys, “a low ranking individual has to be vigilant in a way that a high ranking individual doesn’t,” Dr. Tung said. In humans, lower social status is often associated with financial pressures, a lack of control over one’s life and other stresses. Interestingly, the researchers noted, grooming by other monkeys seemed to buffer stress for lower status animals. Monkeys that were more frequently groomed were less likely to show an inflammatory response, the study found. “In effect, although the misery of harassment can be inflaming, lacking a shoulder to cry on afterwards is worse,” wrote Robert M. Sapolsky, a professor of biological sciences at Stanford who wrote an editorial accompanying the study. Dr. Sapolsky added that in humans, social rank often shifts depending on context, suggesting that the study’s findings in monkeys might also apply to people. “Think of a mailroom clerk acquiring prestige as the captain of the company softball team,” Dr. Sapolsky wrote. If so, it raises the possibility that people’s vulnerability to illness that accompanies low status might also shift if their social circumstances changed. “I think there’s a really positive social message,” Dr. Snyder-Mackler said. “If we’re able to improve an individual’s environment and social standing, that should be rapidly reflected in their physiology and immune cell function. “