 President Trump’s nominee to oversee the Environmental Protection Agency’s chemical safety division on Wednesday withdrew his name from consideration for the post in the face of mounting opposition. The nominee, Michael L. Dourson, a longtime researcher whose studies often bolstered safety claims by manufacturers of pesticides, flame retardants and other products under federal scrutiny as possible public health hazards, had been working as an adviser to the agency while awaiting confirmation. But the Senate never scheduled a confirmation vote for Mr. Dourson, who resigned from his job at the University of Cincinnati in October. And in recent weeks, two Republican senators came forward to say they would not support him. Senator Thomas R. Carper, Democrat of Delaware and a member of the Environment and Public Works Committee, had pushed his colleagues to reject Mr. Dourson. He said Wednesday that his objections were not partisan. “I sincerely believe he is the wrong person to hold this important position, and it’s become clear that, even with a Republican majority in the Senate, he could not be confirmed,” Mr. Carper said in a statement. “Dr. Dourson, an individual who has spent most of his career promoting less protective chemical safety standards, had no business overseeing our nation’s chemical safety laws.” Mr. Dourson notified the White House late on Wednesday of his decision to withdraw his name, according to a Senate aide, adding that Mr. Dourson would not remain at the agency. The decision was welcomed by environmental and public health advocates. “It’s very good news that Michael Dourson won’t be deciding which chemicals are and aren’t safe for our kids,” said Richard Denison, lead senior scientist for the Environmental Defense Fund, an advocacy group. “He was a particularly toxic choice for the job, with his long record of mercenary science. His presence would also have undermined implementation of the historic chemical safety reforms passed by Congress last year.” Mr. Dourson declined to respond to a request for comment sent to the agency’s public affairs office. His withdrawal followed the release of several hundreds of pages of his correspondence with chemical industry officials while he was being considered for the E.P.A. job. The New York Times obtained the emails from Greenpeace, which received them in response to a Freedom of Information request to the University of Cincinnati. A lawyer for the university confirmed their provenance. The emails detail an unusually close relationship with the American Chemistry Council and with individual companies whose products are scheduled for priority review by the E.P.A., among them trichloroethylene, known as TCE, a volatile organic compound widely used in industrial and commercial processes, and flame retardants. The E.P.A., citing the significant health hazards of the chemical TCE, which is widely used as a degreasing agent and a spot cleaner on clothing, had proposing banning it. If he led the division, Mr. Dourson would have had to finalize that plan, even though he had recently handled work for the industry defending the commercial use of the same substance. The documents also show that Mr. Dourson’s center at the university, which accepted money from the trade group and other companies for research, sent a draft paper based on that research to the industry council to edit before submitting it to a journal for publication — considered by most to be an unacceptable practice in academia. “There is a conflict of interest if industry lawyers are vetting papers,” said Arthur Caplan, a professor of bioethics at New York University’s Langone Medical Center. “All in all, an industry trade group role in writing a paper is a mountain of conflict of interest.” Mr. Dourson did not respond to a request for comment on the emails.