 Among insects and spiders, it’s common for females to be the larger of the sexes, by far. The bigger the female, the more eggs she can lay, is the usual explanation. Gavin Svenson, head of invertebrate biology at the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, has found another reason for size differences in some elegant praying mantises of Southeast Asia. In the orchid mantises, the females, a rich creamy white with brown patches and flower-petal-mimicking lobes on their legs, are up to four inches long, much bigger than the males. The females don’t hide among similar-looking orchids. Rather, they perch all alone on green vegetation, looking enough like a flower that pollinators, like bees, come right to them, and predators like monkeys, lizards and birds that eat insects, but not flowers, pass them by. Dr. Svenson and colleagues in Cleveland, Australia and Germany were in the midst of revising the scientific classification and evolutionary history of praying mantises using studies of their shape and DNA, when they noticed how different the orchid mantises were from a small, closely related group of mantises to which they belonged. The females, at least, were not camouflaged like their relatives, but colored to be conspicuous. And the evolutionary path to their size and color was intriguing. First, it appeared, ancestors with typical green and white camouflage greatly increased in size, probably to be able to prey on large pollinators, like bees. Then, some descendants evolved white and yellow colors to mimic flowers in order to attract those pollinators directly. As they evolved, the females became even bigger, and presumably more noticeable and attractive to bees and other pollinators. The males followed a different evolutionary path, sharing some of the females’ colors, but in a pattern that was more like camouflage, and staying small. The males, said Dr. Svenson, lead completely different lives from the females, eating whatever they can catch, and moving around, trying to find females and hide from predators. Dr. Svenson and his colleagues, who reported their study in the journal Scientific Reports, said an evolutionary split in size and behavior between males and females for the female to be a better predator appears to be unique. Dr. Svenson said people are intrigued by mantises because they react differently from other insects. “They will turn and look at you,” he said. Museum visitors who encounter the occasional praying mantis display are often taken aback. “They’ll say, ‘Whoa, that thing made eye contact.’”