 It can often take millenniums for organisms to evolve. But for crumb-size acorn ants in Cleveland, a single human life span may have been enough for them to become adapted to city living. In a recent study published in The Biological Journal of the Linnean Society, scientists found that city acorn ants were more tolerant of heat, and less tolerant of cold, than their rural counterparts. Because Cleveland became significantly urbanized only in the last century, this adaptation would have arisen in no more than 100 years, or 20 acorn ant generations, said Sarah Diamond, an assistant professor of biology at Case Western Reserve University and an author of the study. In their study, Dr. Diamond and collaborators collected acorn ants — which live inside acorns in colonies of up to 200 — from Cleveland and surrounding forests. There is a difference of about 5 degrees Fahrenheit between these environments, Dr. Diamond said, because concrete and asphalt in the city absorb a lot of heat. In the lab, the researchers put ant colonies from each environment in either warm or cool growth chambers for nine weeks. During that time, the queen ants birthed new generations of worker ants. The researchers then tested temperature tolerance by putting individual ants in test tubes, and heating or cooling the tube until the insect inside starting showing a loss of coordination, kind of like “drunken staggering,” Dr. Diamond said. All of the ants, whether collected from the field or reared in the lab, showed a certain degree of flexibility in adapting to their simulated environment. But, most notably, Dr. Diamond found a roughly 2-degree difference in the temperatures that urban and rural ants could tolerate. “That’s a pretty large magnitude of change in a relatively short amount of time,” said Ryan Martin, an assistant professor at Case Western Reserve and another author of the study. This study adds acorn ants to a growing list of organisms, including various plants, birds and lizards, that show signs of adapting to man-made environments, said Colin Donihue, a postdoctoral fellow in evolutionary biology at Harvard. But there are limits to how well global biodiversity can keep up with rapid changes in habitat and climate, Dr. Donihue warned. “We’re not out of trouble,” he said. “All species cannot adapt equally, or equally quickly, and to be honest we really don’t know all of the factors that determine those limits.”