 Alaska’s Gates of the Arctic National Park is so vast that it stretches across an area bigger than Vermont, Rhode Island and Delaware combined. Karupa Lake, tucked off in its northern corner, is so remote that reaching it takes a four-hour skiplane flight from Fairbanks. And it’s so quiet — a day alone there could leave you thinking humans no longer existed. Scientists recently set up audio recording equipment at Karupa Lake as part of a larger effort to document the changing soundscapes of our national parks. They retrieved the equipment months later. It was destroyed. They then salvaged the recordings, and found a surprise: Footsteps, sniffs, huffs, a series of clattering crunches, then silence. Bear versus sound recorder. Bear wins. As the number of people visiting Alaska and national parks breaks records, acoustic measurements of quietude or wilderness-ness are becoming more important to employees of the National Park Service who view sound as part of the ecosystem. The twenty-some members of the Natural Sounds and Night Skies Division are creating long-term recordings across the parks to determine if and how humans and their sounds may be altering park experiences of both visitors and wildlife. “Old-timers say the one thing that’s gotten worse, or changed, is how much noisier it’s gotten,” said Davyd Betchkal, an ecologist who works in Alaska for the division. But there are still places he can go for 24 hours without hearing the sound of a combustion engine. “If I ever have kids, I want them to be able to come to Alaska and have experiences similar to the ones I’ve had,” he said. Karupa Lake is perhaps the premier place for solitude, pure wilderness and intact nature in the whole national park system. This past summer Mr. Betchkal sent Noah Hoffman, his assistant and now a graduate student at the University of Colorado, Boulder, there to get a baseline reading of the types of sounds you’d expect to hear — and the unnatural sounds you wouldn’t. They got almost three weeks of sound before the bear destroyed the recording station. This episode is just one example of the challenges scientists like Mr. Betchkal face working to document and preserve the climate and soundscapes in national parks. Clashes between bears and equipment are not that uncommon. Mr. Betchkal gets about three or four a year. Three types of curious bears find and approach the equipment — especially after hibernation in austere environments, Mr. Betchkal said. The cautious bears smell it and immediately leave. The hungry ones taste test and claw at it. They leave when they realize it’s not food. And the scared bears charge. You can hear the speed of their steps as they run toward the station, flatten it and unplug the mike. “It’s kind of an unknown creature on the landscape that is not moving,” Mr. Betchkal said. And in bear language, that steadfastness is a sign of dominance. The equipment says, try me, and the bear says O.K. This interaction is rare, and most fall into the first category. But Mr. Betchkal thinks the Karupa Lake bear was a type two, and judging by the sound of its lungs and the location, it was a grizzly. In setting up the equipment, Mr. Betchkal was interested in learning how unexpected, human-made background noise might shrink your ability to perceive sound across the vast landscape. That is, say, how a plane overhead might block the detection of a robin on a branch a mile away, shrinking your range of hearing. But even in the absence of human sound, the presence of a human tool had created an unnatural opportunity to detect another unexpected sound. “Even in a place where human noise is practically inexistent,” Mr. Betchkal said, “you’d probably say, oh yeah, I bet it’s pretty quiet. But until you go there and put a mike on the ground, you never know.”