 Federal health officials said on Friday that they had identified one of the sources of tainted romaine lettuce that has so far left 98 people sick, in what is the largest multistate food-borne E. coli outbreak since 2006. The whole-head romaine lettuce that sickened eight people at a correctional facility in Nome, Alaska, came from Harrison Farms of Yuma, Ariz., the Food and Drug Administration said. The remaining illnesses were caused by bagged, chopped romaine lettuce, though health officials continue to urge consumers to avoid all types of romaine from the Yuma area. The outbreak now spans 22 states and involves a particularly aggressive strain of the bacteria, said Matthew Wise, the deputy branch chief for outbreak response at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. “This is a serious E. coli,” he told reporters on Friday. “Everybody should be concerned.” Officials are investigating other parts of the lettuce supply chain and more than two dozen other fields to identify the source or sources of the 90 other E. coli infections, though they said that all are linked to the Yuma area. Because Yuma is near the end of its growing season, lettuce production will be shifting north to the Salinas Valley, in California, for the summer. While no one has died from the current outbreak, 46 people have been hospitalized, with 10 developing a form of kidney failure. The infected range in age from 1 to 88 years old, and about two-thirds are female. Symptoms often include bloody diarrhea, severe stomach cramps and vomiting. Because it takes two to three weeks for an illness to reach the agency’s attention, illnesses contracted after April 7 may still be unreported. There have been larger outbreaks in recent years, but they have been geographically limited. In 2016, for example, 96 people in Illinois were sickened by E. coli linked to cilantro. The 2006 episode, the last multistate outbreak larger than the current one, was traced to spinach and resulted in 238 illnesses and five deaths, according to the C.D.C. “There really had been sort of a positive downturn in the number of outbreaks linked to leafy greens, and certainly the sizes of them seemed to decrease,” said William Marler, a food safety lawyer who is representing many of those infected in the current outbreak. Leafy greens are often the culprit in E. coli outbreaks because, unlike other foods, preparation often lacks a “kill step,” in which they are subjected to high heat. “You’re just eating the raw agricultural product that grew in Mother Earth, so that adds to the possibility that you’re going to pick up a bug,” said Stic Harris, director of the F.D.A.’s Coordinated Outbreak Response and Evaluation Network. It can be difficult to identify an exact source of E. coli, a bacteria transmitted from human or animal feces. Because of the time it takes for symptoms to show and testing to be conducted, weeks can pass between when a person is exposed and when a case is reported. By then, the contaminated lettuce may be long gone. The C.D.C. was first alerted to the current outbreak by officials in New Jersey, where seven people have so far fallen ill. Pennsylvania is home to 18 reported infections, more than any other state. The other states where illnesses have been reported are: Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, New York, Ohio, South Dakota, Tennessee, Virginia, Washington and Wisconsin.