 Updated, Sept. 2017 with all our features for the 2017-18 school year.  Whether you’re here for the first time or have been visiting our site regularly for the last 19 years, we invite you to take a look around. Every school day since 1998, we have offered fresh classroom resources — from lesson plans and writing prompts to news quizzes, student contests and more — all based on the articles, essays, images, videos and graphics published on NYTimes.com. All of our features for students are free, and we hear from thousands of teenagers around the world each week. So whether the students you know are interested in politics or pop culture, science or sports, fashion, food or foreign affairs, invite them here to join the conversation. Below, a list of what we offer, and how to find and use it. We also have a free webinar and related lesson plan detailing 10 Ways to Teach With The Times Today. Questions? Concerns? Ideas? Post a comment, follow us on Facebook or Twitter, write to us at LNFeedback@nytimes.com, or get our weekly newsletter to keep up with what’s new. And, as always, thank you for teaching and learning with The New York Times. _________ All our activities for students, as well as all the content from The Times to which we link, are free and accessible without a digital subscription. You can find the features we describe below by clicking on the different images, shown above, that appear on our home page. • Find discussion questions about an important or compelling news story with our Article of the Day feature. Teachers tell us they use Article of the Day both as mini-lesson plans and as homework or extra-credit assignments students can complete on their own. We also have a separate column for articles that deal with science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) topics. • Access collections of high-interest articles about young people via our monthly Teenagers in The Times feature. On the first Friday of each month, we recognize newsworthy young people by collecting all the recent Times articles about them in one place. Use the feature’s articles to inspire student projects and goals, as models for journalistic writing, as nonfiction companion pieces to literature, or simply as a way to hook young people on reading the newspaper. Here are more teaching ideas, as well as an activity sheet (PDF) you can use with any month’s collection. • Comment on our daily Student Opinion question. Each week thousands of teenagers from around the world post their thoughts to our student questions, and teachers tell us it’s a great place for them to engage with current events, practice good “Web citizen” skills and hone the ability to make and defend arguments. Since we read all comments submitted, and won’t publish them unless they meet New York Times commenting standards, it’s also a safe place to post. Assign your students (13 and up, please) a particular question or have them scroll through all our questions to find some that interest them. For example, here are the 179 questions we asked during the 2016-17 school year. • Have fun with our Tuesday-Friday Picture Prompts. These short, accessible, image-driven prompts include both photographs and illustrations, and invite a variety of kinds of writing. Each links to a related Times article, but all students need to start writing is the image itself and the short, simple language we use to introduce it. Here are several ways classrooms of all kinds might use the feature, online or off, and here is a categorized list of the ones we featured during the 2016-17 school year. • Or, be part of our weekly Current Events Conversation, a place for open-ended discussion about whatever you’re reading, watching or listening to in The Times. New for 2017-18, we plan to publish our favorite student comments each week. Join the conversation, or learn more here. • Keep up with the news of the day through our interactive news quizzes. Take our 10-question interactive News Quiz to test what you know about the week’s biggest stories, to learn additional context about each event, and to see how you stack up against other participants. • Enrich your vocabulary with our Word of the Day + Quiz. Our Word of the Day includes not just a definition and an example in the context of a recent Times article, but also a related quiz that tests whether you really understand each word. • See what you know about places around the globe via our Country of the Week. New for 2017-18, this weekly interactive quiz will first introduce students to a country via a recent video or photograph, then ask them to find that place on a map. Next, the quiz will focus on the demographics and culture of the country. Finally, we’ll include links to recent reporting from that place in case they, or you, would like to go further. Learn more here. • Visit our archive of over 100 Student Crosswords on topics across the curriculum. • Participate in a live visual-literacy discussion each week via What’s Going On in This Picture? Every Monday morning we post a photograph without its caption or other identifying information and ask students to think critically about “What’s Going On in This Picture?” From 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Eastern time, students are invited to post in our comments section about what they see and why, while a moderator from our partner organization, Visual Thinking Strategies, acts as a facilitator to further the conversation. On Thursday afternoons, we reveal the “back story” about the photo and what it depicts. You can learn more about how this feature teaches close-reading and visual-literacy skills here, and find a slide show of 40 of our most popular images here. • Or, try your hand at our live monthly What’s Going On in This Graph? discussion. New for 2017-18, in this feature we’ll be partnering with the American Statistical Association (A.S.A.) to use the Times’s rich trove of graphic visualizations — graphs, maps and charts — to host live moderated discussions. Learn more here. • Join our weekly Film Club to watch and discuss short documentary movies. Via award-winning series like Op-Docs, The Times offers documentaries, most under 15 minutes, that touch on issues like race and gender identity; technology and society; civil rights; criminal justice; ethics; and artistic and scientific exploration. Every Friday, we post a film we think will inspire powerful conversation, and invite students to begin those conversations on our site. Above: A winning entry in our 2017 15-Second Vocabulary Video Contest. • Compete in our student contests, all of them open to any teenager anywhere in the world. We love contests, and we’re always inventing new ones. Whether writing reviews or raps, creating vocabulary videos or found poems, crafting written editorials or editorial cartoons, we hope there’s something on the list for everyone. • Find a calendar of this year’s contests so you can plan ahead. _________ We offer teachers five free lessons a month, but you can also subscribe individually at the education rate or via a schoolwide plan to access all of NYTimes.com plus our full library of lesson resources. By visiting our Lessons page and clicking on the appropriate section, pictured above, you can find materials for English language arts, social studies, math, science and the arts, as well as lessons addressing English language learners and spotlighting key current events. • Discover new, Common Core-aligned lesson plans every week. We publish at least one new lesson plan each week of the school year, on topics drawn from front-page news as well as from other sections of The New York Times. Use them to make connections to current events in your social studies or E.L.A. classroom; incorporate recent research or new Times features into STEM lessons; draw on both Times archival articles and current popular culture to teach literature or history; or teach a cross-curricular skill or strategy via a Times article or feature. To quickly scan all the lessons we published in 2016-17, visit this page. • Get your ideas for teaching with The Times published. If you would like to see your idea on our site, send it in to us here. Your idea can be elaborate or simple, might involve a whole school or just one child, and could employ multiple sections of the daily paper or one dog-eared article you clipped in 2003. We’re just interested in hearing about how people are using The Times in as wide a variety of educational settings as possible. You can always search our site by scrolling down below all the images to the stream of our latest articles. There you will find a search field that looks like this: Typing in terms will return results from The Learning Network both past and present. Finally, though the features below haven’t yet moved to this new site, you can still access them by clicking the links. • Learn what happened On This Day in History • Teach any day’s edition of The Times with our reusable activity sheets. • Read a poem paired with a related Times article. • Find a series of quizzes and writing prompts for E.L.L. students. • Read about our 2015-16 teenage Student Council and view its members’ work. _________ Education reporting and Education Life The School of The New York Times Subscribe to The Times individually at the education rate Subscribe to The Times schoolwide The New York Times College Scholarship Program The New York Times Upfront Sponsor a Student Subscription _________ Thank you again for teaching and learning with The Times. Please let us know what you think by posing a comment or writing to us at LNFeedback@nytimes.com.