 Moths belong to the night. We often only see them when light sends them spiraling down to surfaces, where they land and sit still, beaming out messages like antennaed aliens: Greetings from the World of Darkness. For many, their presence evokes fear; for some, wonder. For Emmet Gowin, who made the diversity of the order Lepidoptera in parts of Latin America a subject of his photography, meeting these visitors was an opportunity to learn something new. Over 160 million years of evolution, some 200,000 species of moths have developed an array of colors, shapes, sizes and behaviors. The largest moths have wingspans of up to a foot. They are important pollinators and destructive pests. It took Mr. Gowin, best known for the intimate, black and white images he made of his wife, Edith, about 20 years to make the acquaintance of the nearly 1,300 moths from Panama, Colombia, Bolivia and Ecuador that he photographed for his latest book, Mariposas Nocturnas: Moths of Central and South America, A Study in Beauty and Diversity, which will be released on Wednesday. A related exhibit opens at the Pace/MacGill Gallery in New York on Thursday. Alive, in color and against assorted backdrops from art history, Mr. Gowin’s moths portray an acceptance of uncertainty in scientific discovery, the creative process and life more generally. They also present an exchange of beauty, a childlike curiosity and an appreciation for the hidden ties between humans and moths In the 1970s, Mr. Gowin held an old cigar box full of dead insects his children had collected. He sprinkled them atop the crumbling pages of a salvaged book. He took a photograph and set it aside. “It was nothing in a way,” he said in an interview, “a book you can no longer read and insects that can no longer fly.” His photography remained focused on other subjects, ranging from family to the assorted effects of human activity on the planet. In 1997, Mr. Gowin began shooting a series of aerial photographs of the Nevada Test Site, where the United States government detonated more than 1,000 nuclear bombs from 1951 to 1992. Before long, Mr. Gowin welcomed a change from a landscape he found tragic. He accepted a friend’s invitation to Ecuador, hoping to learn about ecology and finally study insects, particularly moths. “This must be tragic too,” he recalled, “but it’s a new tragedy I’d like to learn about.” Five years later, Mr. Gowin created a poster of 25 living specimens arranged in a grid for the lobby of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama. The moths were so varied that even the woman who framed the poster was surprised that the winged models all hailed from the same Panama she did. Mr. Gowin eventually made 50 more of these indexes of moths. Many subjects in the portraits are uncommon, and at least one is so rarely seen that it only existed as a painting in a museum drawer. “I wanted to just be astounded by what showed up,” he said. And in that way, you can create your own stories about the moths on each page, and allow it to develop and evolve as you turn to the next. Mr. Gowin’s notion of moths evolved with unexpected encounters in preserved meccas of biodiversity in Latin America. Moths became “real beauty, here on Earth now, and of course, impossible without the forest,” he writes. Moths are most active three days before a new moon, and when it rains. It’s possible that the humidity better diffuses important pheromones, which may be more apparent the darker it is, said Christopher Grinter, an entomology collection manager at The California Academy of Sciences. During such nights, Mr. Gowin learned to embrace the moth’s mysterious universe, and it was during these dark cycles of the moon that he was able to create each index. Early on, Mr. Gowin noticed that the moths’ beauty became more apparent when photographed against remnants of our human world, like painted pieces of wood. He started carrying prints to use as backdrops, including works by Edgar Degas, Henri Matisse and William Blake. Juxtaposing biological specimens with the outputs of human imagination created endless possibilities. By the book’s end, Mr. Gowin said you’ve only sampled a portion of nature’s “inexhaustible beauty.” Moths evolved defensive mechanisms allowing them to hide, release toxic chemicals or display warning colors. Male bella moths even use their toxins to attract mates. Some moths become toxic or boost immunity by eating only certain toxic plants. These tend to be the brightest and boldest moths. “They can afford to advertise: You can see me, but you better not eat me,” Mr. Gowin said. Co-evolving plants developed toxins to defend themselves from moths and other herbivores, too — like caffeine, nicotine and cocaine. Some moths learned to consume these defenses: call it an evolutionary arms race. For Mr. Gowin this project was a lesson in patience. He tagged along wherever researchers were going and allowed things to organize themselves. Donald Windsor, a Smithsonian biologist who studies beetles, introduced him to Cana, an abandoned gold mine in Darien National Park, on the border of Panama and Colombia. Before it was closed to tourists and research in 2010, they spent many summers exploring the forests that reclaimed the mine’s infrastructure. One night in the mountains of Ecuador, a moth resembling a species he had hoped to find landed on the earthen floor of his grass-roofed hut. It flew off before he could properly photograph or identify it. Later that night, he was thumbing through a stack of art prints when he came across an illustration from a book about medicine of the American Civil War. The moth had crawled between dozens of prints and settled on top of this one. “If I had taken that moth and put it through 100 backgrounds, I would never improve on where that thing landed,” said Mr. Gowin. Finding where one belongs is a universal problem, he said. And the most memorable solutions often arrive by chance. “It seems like that’s how evolution works.” Talk to most scientists, he said, and they’ll tell you the same thing. They may think about solutions to a problem for decades, but it’s often chance that helps them ultimately solve it. Mr. Gowin made a cardboard cutout of his wife, Edith, to shield his eyes from the mercury vapor lamp and black light he used to attract the moths to a white sheet. Scientists have offered various hypotheses to explain why moths, organisms that evolved to live in darkness, flock to light. Perhaps light disrupts the internal compasses some moths use to migrate or the pheromones that guide males to females like smoke signals. Maybe moths are sensing the ultraviolet spectrum — and on dark nights it’s easier to detect. Some biologists think the pulse of the light attracts them. When butterflies land, they orient their wings perpendicular to their bodies. But most moths drape their wings over their backs or spread them out to the side. Mr. Gowin was amazed by how individual moths seemed to know to align their separate wings just so, creating the perception of a single pattern. Whether eye-like spots or just conspicuous designs, the patterns on the wings can deter predators. To him each moth was a biological miracle, complex and resolved in its design. Humans were similar: “We’re so playful and we’re so serious. We waste our time. We trivialize our lives, and then at the same time we know that it’s like the moth — unless you get your wings just right, you’re not going to make it.” Four or five specimens in the book were dead or paralyzed by spiders when Mr. Gowin took their picture. You can locate them by closely observing their posture.