 [This article has been updated to reflect changes to the launch schedule.] There’s a great world next door. Let’s go. The search for alien worlds, and perhaps alien life, will take another step outward on Wednesday when TESS, the Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite, is launched into orbit around the Earth. TESS will spend at least two years scrutinizing the entire sky for exoplanets — planets around other stars — within about 300 light years from here. The launch was postponed on Monday and rescheduled for Wednesday at 6:51 p.m. Eastern. Live video is available on NASA’s website at nasa.gov/live, or on YouTube. SpaceX, which will carry the spacecraft aloft, cited a need to work on its guidance and navigation systems, although NASA said on Monday that TESS is in “excellent health, and remains ready for launch.” On Wednesday, the Falcon 9 rocket was returned to the launchpad in Florida, and SpaceX anticipated favorable weather for the launch: Over the last 30 years, astronomers on Earth and in space, using instruments like the Kepler spacecraft, have discovered 4,000 exoplanets, most of them far, far away. Our galaxy, astronomers now think, has more planets than stars. TESS will find the closest of these planets to Earth, pinpointing targets for the next generation of telescopes, like the James Webb Space Telescope, to study for clues to their habitability or even inhabitants. TESS is sponsored by NASA, as one of its small Astrophysics Explorer missions. The spacecraft was designed by a collaboration led by George Ricker of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and built by Orbital ATK of Dulles, Va. The spacecraft has four cameras that will track the brightness of some 200,000 stars every two minutes, looking for slight dips that could represent a planet eclipsing its home star. The spacecraft will divide each hemisphere of the heavens into 13 slices and stare at each segment for 27 days at a time, stepping around the sky in two years. Astronomers expect TESS to find some 20,000 exoplanets, including as many as 500 that are roughly the size of Earth. TESS will be launched into an unusual egg-shaped orbit that takes the spacecraft out as far as the moon every 13.7 days and then back to 67,000 miles above Earth, the altitude at which TESS will transmit data home. SpaceX, the rocket company founded by Elon Musk, has launched a series of successful cargo missions to the International Space Station, although there have been  occasional failures. In February, the company launched a Tesla convertible into orbit around the sun with the new, powerful Falcon Heavy rocket. This is the first time that NASA has directly commissioned the company to launch a scientific satellite. 