 True’s beaked whales look a bit like weird dolphins with big foreheads, fat bellies and small flippers. They’re about the size of an elephant. And yet they are so elusive that most scientists who study them have never seen one in the wild. But in 2013, a group of students on an educational cruise did — just over five yards from their inflatable boat. They captured the scene on video. At the time they knew they had seen a beaked whale, but had no idea they had seen one of the rarest kinds. Their underwater footage, shot in the Azores, a Portuguese archipelago in the Atlantic Ocean, is the first of its kind. It was discovered by scientists who were trying to solve a mystery about a beached whale that had been found farther south in the Atlantic. The researchers, reporting their results Tuesday in the journal PeerJ, said the video provided a rare peek into the social lives of these animals. What they learn from it and other reported sightings could help in devising conservation strategies to protect these attention-shy animals and related beaked whales. Beaked whales exist in temperate waters from the North Atlantic to Brazil, and also near South Africa, Mozambique, Australia and New Zealand. They are some of the least understood mammals on the planet. Few people ever see beaked whales because they spend more than 90 percent of their time diving underwater. They live in small groups, rarely breach and tend to stay away from boats when they do. With only brief glimpses at their bodies, they are hard to distinguish, which makes conservation difficult. Most of what scientists know about the species is gleaned from their carcasses or pooled from behaviors observed among the 22 known species in the beaked whale family. For instance, we know they are exceptional divers. Their bodies even have special pockets for their fins when they dive, making their bodies smoother and allowing the whales to conserve energy and oxygen. Every hour and a half, Cuvier’s beaked whale, also called the goosebeak whale, dives down up to 10,000 feet and stays there, at tremendous pressure, for up to two hours. These dives are deeper and longer than those of any other mammal. Between deep dives, these whales make resting dives that can be 1,200 feet deep and last 20 minutes. And when they breach, the show isn’t as charismatic as that of a dolphin. “They just come out, make a small blow, and you don’t see them again,” said Natacha Aguilar de Soto, a biologist at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland and the University of La Laguna in the Canary Islands. Her current research started in 2012, with a whale that washed up on the shore of El Hierro in the Canary Islands, a Spanish territory in the Atlantic. Using its DNA, Dr. Aguilar de Soto and her team identified it as a True’s whale. But it had an unusual coloring, a white mask, that had not appeared in the scientific literature. The coloring can sometimes vary within and between species and even between the living and the dead. To really know if it was a True’s beaked whale, she asked other researchers if they had seen anything like it. In the process, she stumbled on an array of reports of the whales from scientists, tour boats and students, including the young adult whales swimming in the newly reported video. The beaked whales hung out near the boat for 10 minutes, breathing every 10 seconds or so. This gave the group time to drop a camera in the water, which provided some nice shots that Dr. Aguilar de Soto would later use to make identifications. The encounter with these three whales was among five confirmed live sightings of True’s beaked whales in this region of three Atlantic archipelagos called Macaronesia. A whale-watching group also provided her with photos for identification of True’s beaked whales, a mother and her calf, traveling in the Azores in 2015. Another video showed four Gervais’ beaked whales, relatives of the True’s whales, jumping. By conducting a genetic analysis of the stranded animals and comparing their DNA sequences to that of known True’s beaked whales, her team found that the masked whale of El Hierro had a genetic signature most closely related to that of True’s beaked whales that had been stranded off the Atlantic coast of the United States. No one, though, had reported a similar white mask. It’s possible that this animal’s mask was an anomaly, or that the freshness of the carcass allowed the researchers a rare opportunity to see it: After some time being stranded, the whales all begin to appear dark. To learn more, they are starting a global genetic analysis of bones and tissues of beaked whales to find out if the True’s beaked whales of the Southern Hemisphere are a different species from those of the north, because they’re the only whales found in both, with a gap in the middle. Scientists still have no idea about the numbers of True’s beaked whales or other species in their family. But understanding more about beaked whales is important for protecting the extreme divers. “They are walking the rope of their physiological limitations, and this makes beaked whales more vulnerable to human impact than other whales,” Dr. Aguilar de Soto said. In some cases, naval exercises using sonar to detect submarines have led to mass strandings of Cuvier’s beaked whales, whose fragile physiology is disturbed when they try to escape. “I think it’s important to remember the beauty of the mysteries that are still in the ocean and hope that we should take care of them,” Dr. Aguilar de Soto said.