 Ernest Schoedsack and Ruth Rose helped bring King Kong to life on movie screens in 1933. But before they did that, the two — a cinematographer and a writer — fell in love aboard a ship bound for an unconventional scientific expedition. The man who brought them together was William Beebe. Beebe was among the earliest celebrity scientists. From his perch as an ornithologist at the New York Zoological Society (today the Wildlife Conservation Society), he founded the Department of Tropical Research at the turn of the 20th century. Unlike most ecologists of his time, Beebe saw the world beyond science’s narrow lens. He recruited artists, historians, writers and scientists for his expeditions. Together they created awareness about the complex ecosystems primarily in the jungles of South America and the waters of Bermuda and the Galápagos. Beebe was criticized by more traditional colleagues as producing subpar work and being unprofessional for hiring women. But he helped start successful careers, like those of Jocelyn Crane, who became an expert on fiddler crabs and director of the D.T.R. after Beebe’s death, and Gloria Hollister, who pioneered methods for studying fish and became chairwoman of the Mianus River Gorge Conservation Committee. He encouraged the careers of his staff artists, which included Isabel Cooper, Helen Damrosch Tee-Van and Else Bostelmann — as well as Mr. Schoedsack, Ms. Rose and many more. Working through two world wars and the Great Depression, Beebe’s coed team had an affinity for costume parties, music nights and equator-crossing ceremonies. As President Theodore Roosevelt put it: They were fortunate to enjoy their jobs. They were also open, collaborative and excited about understanding evolutionary ecology by documenting animals in their natural environment. But their legacy was complicated. Although they helped lay foundations for modern conservation, field biology and animal behavior studies, they were riding the coattails of colonialism and industrialism, often funded by America’s economic elite as it sought to control natural resources in the Caribbean and South America. Indentured workers from India, descendants of slaves from Africa, and Native American groups were critical to the D.T.R.’s work, but merely mentioned in some texts. Nonetheless, they produced an enormous volume of popular books, magazine articles, paintings, videos and photographs that engaged public curiosity. For decades they collected dust in the W.C.S. archives, until two fans of Beebe stumbled upon them. Mark Dion, an artist, and Katherine McLeod, an environmental historian and anthropologist, together with Madeleine Thompson, the archive director, are curating a show, which will be held at The Drawing Center in New York City between April 14 and July 16. It will feature Mr. Dion’s recreations of the D.T.R.’s two field stations, along with archival photos and paintings. Here’s a preview. On Aug. 15, 1934, off the coast of Bermuda, Beebe climbed into a big steel ball called a bathysphere. Connected to their ship, Gladisfen, by a cable, he and the pod’s designer, Otis Barton, set the world record at the time for the deepest dive, at 3,028 feet. But Beebe was more interested in conveying the mysterious, glowing, alien life of the ocean’s middle depths. He compared the ocean to space. Peering through a small window, surrounded by blackness, he witnessed bioluminescence, and described a giant fish or other creature that some say he may have made up. He also documented the bristlemouth, a finger-sized, needle-fanged, glow-in-the-dark hermaphrodite of a fish that exists in at least the trillions and is the most numerous vertebrate on Earth. Some of the artists on Beebe’s expeditions went diving in helmets and tried drawing with zinc tablets and painting with oils under water. But they did not descend in the bathysphere. Instead, Beebe had a telephone inside it. He would call up to another researcher, often Ms. Hollister — who would lead her own expedition in 1936 to what was then British Guiana and also broke diving records as the first woman to complete a deep sea dive in the Bathysphere at 1,208 feet — who would dictate what he saw. Then, artists like Ms. Bostelmann, who painted this image of a fish chasing another fish’s larvae, would create their illustrations based on those dictations or specimens dredged up from below. “It was a literal game of telephone,” said Ms. Thompson. Beebe encouraged his staff to pursue their interests. Ms. Cooper was a staff artist who joined Beebe on seven voyages including a 1925 expedition from New York to the Galápagos aboard the Arcturus. She obsessed over painting snake eyes and scales, preferring live snakes over dead, because the color was more vibrant. The research team would bring specimens to the artists’ stations, or the artists would catch animals on their own. To paint the exotic living creatures, they had to improvise. “There’s no such thing as a school of snake artists, so when the problem of making a portrait of a snake presented itself I had to think up the technique for myself,” she wrote in The Atlantic Monthly in 1924. “I have had to discover — by the process of elimination mostly, I am afraid — which were friendly, or curious, or sedentary, and which preferred a long leap into the unknown to any dealings whatsoever with me.” George Allen Swanson wrote it sounded “silly” when he told his friends during intermission at an opera that he was going to paint animals in the jungle. “I imagine I looked a bit ecstatic, and somehow Pelleas, martinis and the jungle didn’t mix properly,” he wrote in an essay printed in Animal Kingdom magazine in 1945. He was trained as an artist, but had to learn that painting scientifically meant precision. He had to measure spines and count scales. Even with the technical drawings, artists were given some creative freedom. Here Mr. Swanson technically portrays a praying mantis at the top, yet shows it doing ballet below. “It is really merging this idea of speaking to groups beyond the scientific elite,” said Ms. McLeod. Starting in 1922, Ms. Tee-Van, an accomplished New York artist, joined Beebe on 13 expeditions to then British Guiana, Haiti, Venezuela, Bermuda and Trinidad. She went on to produce illustrations, textiles and models for exhibits and books including the 1939-40 World’s Fair and the Encyclopaedia Britannica. During the expeditions, Ms. Tee-Van dove into the water wearing a sixty-pound glass helmet to sketch passing creatures using a lead pencil and zinc plates. But one of her most notable works, this painting of a giant squid, was made from the body of an “undescribed species” brought up from about a mile beneath the sea. In the 1980s, scientists and photographers started a quest to document the elusive squid depicted in this painting in a woman-led expedition called the Beebe Project which also had artists. They never found it. But in 2012, Edith Widder and two other oceanographers shot the first underwater footage of a giant squid off the coast of Japan.