 Though some overachieving parents read and play Mozart to their unborn babies, there is little scientific evidence to suggest that children gain long-term benefits if you expose them to certain sounds before birth. Zebra finch babies, however, may be a different story, according to new research published Thursday in Science. Two scientists from Deakin University in Australia discovered that Australian zebra finches sing unique calls to their eggs when it’s hot out. What’s more, birds that were incubated and raised at high temperatures grew more slowly if they had been exposed to these “incubation calls,” an adaptation that later led to higher reproductive success. The researchers believe their study provides some insight into how these birds might respond to climate change. These findings show, for the first time, that parent birds can communicate environmental conditions to their babies before they hatch, said Joseph Woodgate, a behavioral ecologist at Queen Mary University of London who has previously worked with both researchers. The scientists behind the study began investigating after they noticed Australian zebra finches making an unusual call in an outdoor aviary. “It sounds really different from other types of calls they do,” said Mylene M. Mariette, who researches the evolution of parental care and is an author of the paper. “It’s quite high-pitched and fast.” Dr. Mariette and Katherine Buchanan, a professor of life sciences, studied more than 120 finches in the aviary and found that parents only performed incubation calls when their eggs were within five days of expected hatching and the maximum daily temperature exceeded 78 degrees Fahrenheit. The researchers then incubated eggs at a high temperature and played recordings of either the incubation calls or other nonspecific calls. Among 130 nestlings, they found that the birds that heard the incubation calls grew more slowly when raised in hot conditions. In adulthood, females that followed this growth pattern produced more babies. Birds that received the incubation call also chose to breed in warmer nests as adults, suggesting a preference for higher temperatures. Next, the researchers hope to pinpoint the biological process underlying these effects, and to understand why staying smaller for longer is an advantage in the heat. It could be because smaller birds can dispel body heat more easily or because growing too quickly in a stressful, hot environment brings too much damage to the body. Either way, the findings show that the birds “actually have a mechanism to prepare their offspring for high temperatures,” Dr. Mariette said. Still, that doesn’t mean the finches would be able to cope with rapid and extreme changes that could come with climate change — so far, she and Dr. Buchanan have only studied a normal range of temperatures. “The question becomes whether or not that environmental change can outpace their capacity to be flexible, said Sharon Lynn, a biology professor at the College of Wooster who studies stress and reproduction in birds.