 A bit of science trivia: Did you know that the heart of a fruit fly beats at about the same pace as yours? That’s among the reasons that 400 adult fruit flies and 2,000 eggs are packed to go to the International Space Station, for an experiment on long-term weightlessness and how it might affect the cardiovascular health of astronauts. “It’s not as weird as you might think,” said Karen Ocorr, a professor at the Sanford Burnham Prebys Medical Discovery Institute in La Jolla, Calif., and a co-investigator on the experiment. Although the structure of a fly heart is very different than that of a human, the cardiovascular system shares many of the same cellular components in addition to the similar heartbeats. By comparison, the hearts of rats and mice beat about 10 times as fast as those of people. Fruit flies, Dr. Ocorr said, are “actually much closer in some respects to humans than the mouse or rat models are.” The fruit flies, as well as 40 mice for another experiment, are waiting to travel on a SpaceX mission that was called off Thursday with less than a half-hour left in the countdown because of a nearby lightning strike. The rocket is to lift a Dragon capsule with nearly 6,000 pounds of supplies, equipment and experiments including the fruit flies and mice. The next opportunity is Saturday at 5:07 p.m. If the rocket gets off the ground then — forecasters expect more unsettled weather — it would arrive at the space station on Monday, when the space station crew will grab the Dragon capsule and attach it to a docking port. After about a month attached to the space station, the Dragon will undock and return to Earth with a splashdown in the Pacific. The fruit fly eggs are to hatch in orbit, while the adults will lay more eggs. The flies will return to Earth in the Dragon. Dr. Ocorr and her colleagues will then study the flies for abnormalities in the skeletal and heart muscles and the shape of the hearts. The researchers have sent flies to the space station before, in January 2015. “We did see cardiac dysfunction,” Dr. Ocorr said. There were changes in the expression of genes associated with the cardiovascular system. The mice will help address another aspect of astronaut health: bone strength. Without gravity pulling down, the bones of astronauts turn fragile — losing 1 to 2 percent of bone mass each month — although NASA has found that exercise can slow down that loss. The researchers want to test on the mice a drug that stimulates bone growth. For long space missions, like a trip to Mars, “we can’t have our astronauts breaking a hip or something,” said Dr. Chia Soo, a medical researcher at the University of California, Los Angeles, who is the principal investigator on the experiment, during a news conference last month highlighting some of the science headed to the space station. “Preserving bone mass is a critical component of long-term space exploration.” If successful, the test could point to the use of the same drug to treat osteoporosis in patients on Earth. Half of the mice will also make the return trip to Earth in the Dragon and be delivered to U.C.L.A. “Then we will be able to study these rodents further,” Dr. Soo said. The scientists will continue drug treatment and compare the condition of the mice on Earth with those still on the space station. Hundreds of other experiments are underway on the International Space Station. NASA is particularly interested in the health of the astronauts, often using animals as stand-ins for people. But the space station has also become a laboratory for testing space technology and studying the behavior of materials and processes like combustion when gravity is removed. Another experiment headed up on this SpaceX mission will look toward distant neutron stars, the burned-out cores of large stars. Scientists hope that by looking at the X-rays from fast-spinning neutron stars, they will get clues about the properties of the ultradense matter the stars are made of. That is not possible on Earth, because the atmosphere blocks out X-rays. “They’re spinning faster than the blades of a household blender,” said Zaven Arzoumanian, one of the principal investigators of the Neutron Star Interior Composition Explorer, or Nicer. The experiment also serves as a prototype for using these fast-spinning neutron stars, also known as pulsars, as navigation beacons for spacecraft venturing out in the solar system. “It’s an enabling technology that hasn’t been demonstrated in space,” Dr. Arzoumanian said. The mission will also advance SpaceX’s efforts to reuse parts of its spacecraft. This particular Dragon capsule was used during SpaceX’s fourth cargo mission in September 2014. After the capsule returned to Earth, SpaceX technicians worked to make it space-worthy again. “We refurbished it, inspected it, made sure everything is qualified for the next flight,” Hans Koenigsmann, SpaceX’s vice president of mission assurance, said during a news conference on Wednesday. This is the first time a Dragon is being reused. Some components on the Dragon were replaced, notably the heat shield and components that were exposed to corrosive seawater. But the main structure remains original. “The majority of this Dragon has been in space before,” Mr. Koenigsmann said. A reusable spacecraft is not a new concept — NASA’s space shuttles each flew many times — but traditional capsules, like the ones used during NASA’s Apollo moon missions and Russian Soyuz launches, are used only once.