 On a flat peninsula in western Ireland bordered by shallow cliffs that rise from the Atlantic Ocean sits a field of boulders. Some weigh nearly four times more than a school bus. Now scientists have figured out how these boulders reached their high perches. A study published Monday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences suggests that powerful storm surges swept the boulders inward. The findings might help scientists better understand the dangers of coastal storms, which climate scientists predict are bound to increase in our warming world. Scientists have long debated whether these mighty boulders were deposited on the Irish coast by violent storm waves or powerful tsunamis. To settle the question, John Dewey, a retired professor of geology at Oxford University, and Paul Ryan, a retired geologist at the National University of Ireland, dug into historic records, oceanographic data and field measurements. Both lighthouse records and measurements from offshore buoys point toward a landscape that is commonly ravaged by large storm waves. And some of those waves can reach enormous heights. Take a storm in 1861, which sent waves crashing over an approximately 220-feet-tall lighthouse near the boulder site. The waves broke the glass and flooded the lighthouse. Its keepers, unable to push the door open against the water, had to drill a hole in the door to release the buckets of water before they could assess the damage. “Think of the power of a wave crashing on the shore that high,” Dr. Dewey says. A single cubic meter of water weighs roughly a metric ton, or about 2,200 pounds, which is roughly the weight of a giraffe. “If you’re throwing a wall of water, say 30 or 40 meters high over a large area, the volume of water is enormous and the crushing force is tremendous,” Dr. Dewey says. To confirm their suspicions, the team added historical and oceanographic data into a computer model. They found that the waves are powerful enough to wash massive boulders that originate beneath the ocean’s surface hundreds of feet inland — exactly where they’re found in western Ireland. Those waves can even rip the boulders from the faces of surrounding cliffs. Then with each successive storm, other waves can pick them up and wash them farther inland. Adrian Hall, a geomorphologist at Stockholm University who was not involved in the study, said the work adds to the evidence that storm surges are able to move stones like these ones. “We’re pretty secure that on some coasts at least, the boulders are moving in storms,” he says. The same can’t be said farther afield on New Zealand’s North Island, which is littered with boulders heavier than 150 tons. These were likely deposited by a tsunami, Dr. Ryan and Dr. Dewey say, because sandstone and broken shells are embedded between the boulders — sediment that must have originated on the ocean floor. By comparing the two sites, the team found — perhaps counterintuitively — that storm surges can sometimes be just as fierce as tsunamis. In fact, their calculations show that a 65-feet-tall storm surge can rip the same-size boulder from a cliff as a 16-feet-tall tsunami. And in western Ireland, such tall storm waves are common, perhaps occurring 30 times every year. “We all know tsunamis are frightening — I think it’s less well-appreciated how frightening storms can be,” Dr. Ryan says. And given that these storms are predicted to increase in both number and intensity in the future, “then obviously a full understanding of the power of waves and their effect on coastal communities is really, really important,” Dr. Ryan says.