 Q. Is there a test for the health of my gut microbiota? A. There are several outfits willing to profile your microbiome, the trillions of microbes that live in your gut, if you send in a fecal sample and pay a fee. But while you may be contributing to science, you won’t learn much about your health from the test because the field is still in its infancy, said Dr. Rashmi Sinha, a senior investigator at the National Cancer Institute. “It’s not ready for prime time,” she said. “You’ll get an enormous amount of data that is basically uninterpretable,” said Dr. Martin J. Blaser, director of the Human Microbiome Program at New York University, though he added, “there are people who will be very happy to take your money and tell you they can interpret it.” Scientists have found intriguing differences between the bacteria that inhabit the guts of healthy people and the microbiomes of those with chronic diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease and Type 2 diabetes. But it is still unknown if changes in the microbiome cause the disease, or if the disease process itself or drugs or other therapies used to treat it cause the differences, Dr. Blaser said. Further complicating the matter is that there is also a tremendous diversity among the microbiomes of healthy people. If you do choose to have your microbiome scanned, you will receive a kit in the mail that contains sterile swabs and instructions on how to collect samples from stools or, in some cases, your tongue or skin. Once you’ve mailed the sample in and it has been analyzed, you’ll get a list of the dominant microbial species populating your gut — the readout will most likely include groups of bacteria with names like Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes, along with their relative prevalence, percentage-wise, in the sample from your gut. The information is presented in colorful graphics that let you compare your gut microbiota with those of other Americans or people elsewhere in the world, or people who follow a vegetarian or a Western diet. “Some people want reassurance that their microbiome looks like a typical microbiome of other participants,” said Rob Knight, director of the Center for Microbiome Innovation at the University of California, San Diego. “Others want to find out if they’re atypical in some respect, because they think they’re particularly healthy or particularly sick.” Dr. Knight co-founded the American Gut Project, a crowd-funded research initiative that collects and analyzes microbiome samples sent in by participants who contribute toward building a large public database of the human microbiome. But, Dr. Knight said, “What you can do with the information at the moment is limited. It’s very much a science project, not a diagnostic test.”