 The Earth sails through streams of cosmic debris as it orbits the sun. When specks of dust and ice left behind by comets or asteroids collide with our atmosphere, we experience meteor showers. But what we’re seeing are only the final moments of a particle’s path through space. Most flecks have traveled for millions of miles before we see them burn up (if we’re lucky). Now, astronomers and engineers have created an animation that lets you witness the entire journey. Using data from the Cameras for Allsky Meteor Surveillance, a network of about 60 cameras pointed at the sky above San Francisco Bay, researchers have recorded more than 300,000 meteoroid trajectories since 2010. They plan to use the data to confirm more than 300 potential meteor showers that scientists have observed, but not verified. “Each dot that you see is a shooting star that was captured by one of our cameras,” said Peter Jenniskens, an astronomer at the SETI Institute and NASA Ames Research Center in Silicon Valley, Calif., who runs CAMS. His interactive transforms meteor showers like the Geminids and the Orionids into shimmering rivers of space rocks. Viewers can pinpoint the moment the Lyrids or Eta Aquarids light up the night by watching when their streams intersect with the Earth’s orbit, shown in blue. There is even an option to see all the meteor showers at once, making it look like a meteor hurricane. The cameras that Dr. Jenniskens operates are like video surveillance cameras, but they are directed toward the night sky, watching for meteors. By having multiple cameras observing the same shooting star, he can determine the meteor’s speed and direction through the atmosphere. Using that information, his computer software can estimate the space rock’s path through the solar system. Then, by collecting enough data on meteors traveling from the same direction around the same time with the same speed, he can sketch out the orbit of an entire meteor stream. The observations also show that meteor showers, especially those that last for weeks or months at a time, move from night to night, according to Dr. Jenniskens. The Perseids, for example, get their name from the constellation Perseus because they appear to originate from that point in the sky during their peak in mid-August. But the cameras also observed that Perseids meteors are closer to the constellation Cassiopeia in July when they are first detected, and nearer to the constellation Camelopardalis in September. He attributes the drift to Earth’s curved path around the sun, which changes the direction from which the particles hit the planet. He also saw that several meteor showers, most noticeably the kappa Cygnids and the omicron Eridanids, drift widely throughout the duration of the shower. He said that Jupiter’s gravity might be responsible for warping their meteor streams. In a paper published recently in the journal Planetary and Space Science, he identified 45 streams that move in the night sky. The animations were created by Ian Webster, a software engineer who worked with Dr. Jenniskens. Dr. Jenniskens hopes the visualization will show skygazers what is behind the scenes of their favorite celestial light shows. “Next time you see a meteor shower, go to the tool and see what you’re actually looking at,” Dr. Jenniskens said. “It’ll make your experience of watching shooting stars more exciting.”