 C. Megan Urry is a former president of the American Astronomical Society and the first woman to head the physics department at Yale University. Recently inducted to the National Academy of Sciences, she has published pioneering studies on the role of black holes in the formation of galaxies. More than 20 years ago, Dr. Urry helped organize 200 scientists who issued the Baltimore Charter for Women in Astronomy, which declared that “women should not have to be clones of male astronomers in order to participate in mainstream astronomical research.” More recently, she announced that scientists with a record of sexual harassment would no longer be welcome at the astronomical society’s meetings. We spoke at her New Haven, Conn., office. A condensed and edited version of the conversation follows. Q. Why was the meeting ban necessary? A. We had a situation where we had young female astronomers reporting conference experiences that were very different from those of their male counterparts. The men came and used the event to network. The women came and sometimes found themselves worried about people propositioning them. I wanted to make clear what our values are. I said straight out, “Look, our meetings are not ‘The Dating Game.’ This is a professional environment. Act professionally.” Was there much sexual harassment at astronomy conferences? Probably no more than at other corners of academe. It’s a problem all over. I suspect we’re hearing more about astronomy because our young people are complaining more. Listen, two years ago, there was a survey published about scientific disciplines where people do field work. A high level of harassment was reported. For the men, the approaches came mainly from peers. The women reported being hit on by their superiors. That’s extremely troubling because in academia your career is in the hands of your adviser. If he’s approaching you for sex, you’re in trouble. There’s generally no path forward in academe for the woman who has a powerful antagonist angry at her. What’s your own story? Did you always want to be an astronomer? No. In high school, I was the girl who was good at everything — English, history, math, science. For a while, I thought I might like to become the first woman president. A female chemistry teacher counseled me to think about a scientific career. She said I thought like a scientist because I was always comparing things to one another. I think it was my father, a science professor at Tufts, who suggested astrophysics. In those days, the 1970s, I thought I’d be able to do anything with my life. I chose physics because it was clean and elegant. I didn’t go through that thing that often happens to teenage girls where they fall off of the cliff of self-confidence and get discouraged about science. The discouraging things happened later on. When?  In graduate school and later, when I was a postdoc at M.I.T. Before then, there was a lot of discrimination around me, but I had rationalizations. If I didn’t see other females in advanced classes, I thought, “Maybe no other woman wants to do this.” I now think my attitude was laughable. When I got to M.I.T., in 1984, there were very few women full professors, maybe two. I was the only female postdoc at the Center for Space Research. It was there that I first started examining the environment I had chosen. I could see that there were plenty of young women starting out in STEM [science, technology, engineering and mathematics] fields, though the higher one went, the fewer the women. Was the atmosphere at M.I.T. discouraging to your own ambitions?  The guy who hired me was wonderful, but there were very few women. I remember a male assistant professor once telling me I’d have an easy time obtaining employment once I finished, because affirmative action “gave women a big advantage over more qualified men.” In 1990, when I got my first faculty position, I saw more sexism. This was at the Space Telescope Science Institute, on the Johns Hopkins campus. At the time, around 15 percent of the Ph.D.s in astronomy went to women. Yet, there were only three other woman among 52 faculty members. When women applied for jobs, the guys would come hear their talks. Then, they’d go, “Well, I don’t know how much of that was hers.” And then some guy gave a talk that was vague and undocumented, and they’d go, “Let’s try to hire him.” Why remain at such a workplace?  The two-body problem. My husband worked near Baltimore, and I wanted to be where he was. And the work itself was exciting. We did the science for the Hubble Space Telescope. I wasn’t paid equally. How do I know? At a certain point, I received something called an “equity raise,” which signaled my pay was at the bottom of my cohort. Just about all the other women got similar equity raises. We were, as a group, at the bottom of the heap. I struggled between intellectual self-confidence and constant put-downs. Once, when I requested a raise because I’d been offered tenure and a 30 percent increase at another institution, I was turned down with “maybe you’re not as smart as you think you are.” I cried for hours. Another time, I applied for a job I was qualified for. A male administrator sneered, “You know what makes a leader? Someone others will follow — you’re not that.” I was so beaten down I didn’t even argue. People say this is the best time in history to be doing astronomy. Is it? Absolutely. The big news is in my own area — black holes, the center of galaxies. Last year, LIGO  [Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory] detected gravitational waves from a pair of merging black holes in a galaxy probably a billion light-years away. The waves were, of course, interesting by themselves. What fascinated me was that the merged black holes were roughly 30 times the mass of our sun. They were, at once, too small and too big for a black hole. It’s much smaller than the supermassive black holes we’ve seen in the centers of galaxies, and much bigger than the black holes that come from exploding stars. It could be something entirely new. Thanks to LIGO, we’ve learned that the masses of the two black holes appear to have merged. The two are measured at about 30 solar masses, which is different, smaller, from what we usually see. There’s some thought that they may be remnants from the first generation of stars. For the past 15 years, I’ve been discovering where and when black holes grew. My tools have been ground and space telescopes such as Keck and Hubble. We’ve learned a lot from them. The LIGO discovery suggests a new way to study the universe.  Will we not need those space-based satellites anymore?  On the contrary, the Chandra X-ray telescope and the XMM-Newton X-ray telescope have taught us the most about black holes. It appears that every black hole emits X-rays. The newest space telescopes spot them instantly. The James Webb Space Telescope, which is slated to be launched in 2018, is utterly amazing. It’s much bigger than Hubble, and it will enable us to see some of the first galaxies ever.  