 Litters of healthy mice — “space pups” — prove that mouse sperm can be freeze-dried, flown around on the International Space Station for nine months and then used to make babies, researchers from Japan are reporting in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Why do such a thing? At an altitude of 250 miles, where the station orbits, radiation is more than 100 times stronger than on earth. The scientists, from the University of Yamanashi, wanted to find out if prolonged exposure would affect fertility or the health of any offspring. They are looking ahead to a time when humans spend years in space habitats and might want to use frozen sperm and eggs up there. Much like the orange-flavored Tang that astronauts used to drink, freeze-dried mouse sperm can be reconstituted with water. Although tests on the space sperm did find slightly increased DNA damage, compared with freeze-dried earth sperm, the space version did the job when it came to fertilizing eggs. Birthrates and male-to-female ratios were normal, and the space pups went on to have healthy pups of their own. Apparently, after fertilization, nature somehow fixed the DNA damage. The findings seem like good news for space travelers, but then again, mice are not men. The researchers say that longer times in space might produce more DNA damage than cells can repair. Hundreds of other experiments are underway on the International Space Station. NASA is particularly interested in the health of the astronauts. Without gravity, bones lose strength and eyes are squashed, affecting vision. Research on the station has helped prove that exercise greatly slows the loss of bone, but the eyeball mystery is still not well understood. Often, as in the mouse experiment, scientists turn to animal stand-ins. On the next flight of cargo to the space station will be a multitude of fruit flies. Their cardiovascular systems are similar to humans’ in many ways, and studying the changes that occur during a one-month trip in orbit could provide clues of what would happen to astronauts after years of weightlessness.