 The deadnettle is the Punxsutawney Phil of the plant world: short of stature but stout of heart. At the first hint of winter’s wane, its stem rises from the ground and a green, grasping hand of sepals unclenches to divulge two silky-white petals, one of which unfurls straight up toward the sky. These petals frame the flower’s own beauty: The top one stands poised over the anthers, while the bottom one drapes the ovaries in modesty. I am not the only scientist to be struck by the power and meaning of Lamium album in bloom. A naturalist named Richard Fitter walked the fields of Oxfordshire, England, for more than half a century, faithfully recording the first flowering dates of 385 plant species. Years later, when his son Alastair analyzed the data, he found that the 1990s marked a significant change on our warming planet — that hundreds of plants were, on average, flowering five days earlier than they had been during the four decades that had gone before. And it was the unassuming little deadnettle that stood out the most: its first flowering had been pushed back by a whopping 55 days. Since the 1990s, Lamium album has marked winter’s end, on average, by Jan. 23 — the day the plant looks up and declares its flower shop open for business. Back in the 1950s, it did not bloom before March. The long days of summer are the true theater of nature, its rising action having been blocked across eons of evolution. While both plants and animals awaken via distinct changes in metabolic functioning, most plants prefer to err on the side of caution, waiting for hints of full-on summer before they bloom. Only a few, like the deadnettle, celebrate the end of winter with flowers, rising from the earth to observe their own private Groundhog Day. Unlike its rodent analog, however, Lamium album never, ever sees its shadow. It invariably proclaims spring, effective immediately, then sets about making itself irresistible to bumblebees — who haven’t even begun to think about pollen collection, by the way. The strategem makes a kind of desperate sense: After all, you might as well embrace the best case when you’ve absolutely no option to return underground. This is just one way that plants differ from animals: After they go forward, there’s no going back. Plants are decisive to a fault. A stem produces a bud that flowers once and once only. It offers pollen that is either dispersed or goes nowhere. One pollen grain either enters a stigma or it falls upon stony ground. An ovum is either fertilized or the whole project stalls out. Only very rarely is a seed produced. And even more rarely does a seed successfully grow into a new plant. For the last 30 years, I have been searching for a scientific term that captures the plant’s impetus for reproduction more robustly than the word “hope.” I have not found one. Alas, disasters do occur. If the air should suddenly re-freeze, as we saw last week, all of the soft, new and precious tissues of the optimistic plant — buds, sepals, petals — will break and bleed, finally rotting like the bag of celery you shoved too far back in your refrigerator and then forgot. Ironically, while decades of global warming have decreased the duration of cold air outbreaks in North America, they may very well be increasing in frequency and intensity, as climate change tampers with the polar vortex. That’s the world we live in now: We drive and chop and burn and fly, while the plants around us freeze and die. We dance, and the plants pay the piper — until they can’t pay anymore. Then the bees pay. Then the farmer pays. Then we all pay. For more than 30 years, scientists have been warning us that global warming could decimate agriculture by leaving plants vulnerable to frost damage, with devastating consequences for a huge variety of cash crops, from apples to spruce lumber. The single spring freeze that swept across the continental United States over Easter weekend 2007 obliterated crops from Nebraska to Maryland, from Texas to South Carolina. The agricultural losses in North Carolina alone were estimated at over $110 million, causing the state’s governor to request federal disaster assistance. More recently, after the biologist Carol Augspurger examined more than a century of weather and forestry records from Illinois, she concluded that the yearly probability of frost damage had increased by a factor of seven since 1980, compared to the odds of frost damage during the 90 years of weather that came before. Always pause when you see a flower, at least long enough to wish luck to the plant that made it. The flowers are going to need it. Because of you and me, and the 10 billion tons of carbon that we put into the atmosphere last year, the flowers of the near future must rely more and more on dumb luck as their tried-and-true blooming strategies leave them stranded and vulnerable to the unnatural climate that we have foisted upon them. This spring, take time to smell the flowers, and consider how not long after their luck runs out for good, ours will too.