 Re “Could it be Sepsis?” (Sept. 20): As a healthy 40-year-old breast-feeding mom, I developed sepsis in about six hours after first signs of mastitis. High fever, chills, shakes. I was very lucky that this happened on a holiday weekend so my doctor told me to go to the emergency room to get antibiotics. We sat rather ignored in the E.R., but once the doctors finally saw me, took my blood pressure and white-blood-cell count, they put me in the I.C.U. Luckily, I recovered and went back to my kids. The E.R. definitely made me wait a few hours, so reading that each hour without antibiotics adds 8 percent more risk of death enunciates the need for E.R.s to be made more aware of sepsis. Ariel, Los Angeles, Posted to nytimes.com Two members of my family had sepsis. One passed away, and the other recovered after two weeks in the hospital. The most telling observable symptom, besides being extremely sick, was that they were both very confused. So, I would second the advice in this column: Take very seriously a confused state in an ill person. Susan Miller, Pasadena, Calif., Posted to nytimes.com Yes, it is so very important to recognize and treat sepsis quickly and aggressively. But it is also important to remember this sword cuts both ways. Overtreatment with antibiotics is contributing to the very serious problem of “superbugs;” multiresistant bacteria pose a substantial risk to possibly more people. etchory, Lancaster, Pa., Posted to nytimes.com Sepsis killed my 21-year son over eight years ago during his senior year at the University of Illinois after he was misdiagnosed with a case of the flu. After bringing him home to rest and recover from the so-called flu he suddenly worsened and just 12 hours after rushing him to the hospital, he was gone. Mr d, Illinois,posted to nytimes.com Re “Why Fidgeting Is Good Medicine” (Sept. 20): Yes, finally! I can provide scientific reference and evidence when I fidget to counter the many comments by people that I must be bored, nervous, anxious or otherwise not normal for my rather consistent fidgeting all my life — and I’m a slim, healthy 59-year-old. I’m sending this article directly to my partner at work, he who is the most still, motionless person I know — a man who can sit through a two-hour movie without moving a muscle! Ha ha ha: Fidgeters unite!!! Liz Dickson, Virginia, Posted to nytimes.com I fully believe that is self-soothing to those who fidget like that, but it is completely the reverse for people nearby who catch the vibrations or a bit further away who see the fidgeting at their peripheral vision. Minmin, New York,Posted to nytimes.com