 An ice sheet with more water than Lake Superior may slake the thirst of future astronauts living on Mars. Using radar soundings from NASA’s Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter spacecraft, scientists probed what lies in Utopia Planitia, a 2,000-mile-wide basin within an ancient impact crater. For decades, the region looked intriguing because of polygonal cracking and scalloped depressions in the landscape. In places on Earth like the Canadian Arctic, patterns like these arise from ice beneath the surface. The ground cracks as ice underneath expands and contracts with the changing temperatures; the scallops, as if carved by an ice cream scoop, are places where the surface sinks as the ice melts. “We’d say, ‘It looks like there’s ground ice there,’” Cassie Stuurman, a graduate student at the University of Texas at Austin, said about Utopia Planitia. “What we haven’t known is how much is there.” An older NASA orbiter, Mars Odyssey, found the region dry, but its instruments could only investigate about a yard beneath the surface. Ground-penetrating radar on Reconnaissance could peer much deeper into the ground, collecting data as the orbiter made more than 600 passes. Ms. Stuurman, the lead author of an article in the journal Geophysical Research Letters that described the findings, said the radar reflections revealed that the ice sheet, ranging in thickness from 260 to 560 feet, covered an area larger than New Mexico. The ice is fairly pure — at least 50 percent frozen water — with dirt, rocks and porous empty spaces mixed in, researchers believe. “That’s kind of what I’m imagining,” Ms. Stuurman said. Water ice is plentiful at the Martian poles, but Utopia Planitia might be a more attractive landing site for future astronauts, because it is in the more temperate mid-northern latitudes. Water ice cannot persist on this part of the Martian surface. The solid ice would transform to water vapor and float away. But hidden by a layer of soil, the ice remains. In addition to providing something to drink, water could be split into oxygen and hydrogen for rocket fuel. Ms. Stuurman said the vast deposit of ice suggests that it accumulated as snowfall during one of the planet’s ice ages and was later buried. She said there were no signs that this snow ever melted into a lake.