 The Earth’s magnetic field — which deflects harmful space radiation from the surface — has been weakening, losing about 10 percent of its strength over the last two centuries, and the decay may have been accelerating in recent years. That weakening led to speculation that the magnetic field may be on the cusp of disappearing during a reversal, when the planet’s north and south poles flip, which could have consequences for civilization and life. But geoscientists have little knowledge of what has been occurring with the magnetic field during recent millenniums. The current decline could be just a squiggle of typical fluctuations. So they turned to pottery and the record keeping of ancient bureaucrats. In a paper published on Monday in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, an international team of scientists examined 67 jar handles collected from excavations of Judah, an Iron Age kingdom encompassing the region around Jerusalem between the eighth and second centuries B.C. Embedded in these handles, scientists say, are records of how the magnetic field rose and fell during those centuries. The jars contained liquid goods like wines or olive oil. The handles included royal stamp markings, part of the tax collection system. The markings did not include a specific date, but archaeologists, who have studied the artifacts for more than a century, know how the markings changed over time. That allowed the scientists to date the jars, give or take 15 years at most. (The research is akin to future archaeologists turning to the typography of I.R.S. tax forms.) “We can use it thousands of years later to track the changes with time,” said Erez Ben-Yosef, an archaeologist at Tel Aviv University of Israel. “And then use the jar samples to reconstruct the magnetic field intensities.” Volcanic rocks record the strength and direction of the magnetic field as they cool and harden. But methods for dating rocks are imprecise, involving uncertainties of thousands of years. Like volcanic rocks, the ceramic jars recorded the Earth’s magnetic field when they were fired in kilns and then cooled. At the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in La Jolla, Calif., small chips from the jars were heated and cooled in a magnetic field to deduce the strength of the field when the jars were first made. For the oldest jars, in the late-eighth century B.C., the field was very strong, two and a half times that of present day, corroborating earlier observations. But that spike in the field strength dissipated, declining by about a third in under 30 years. For Dr. Ben-Yosef, that indicates the current decline is probably not a harbinger of a reversal. “This is not unique and shouldn’t be regarded as such,” he said. Geophysicists, however, are unable to explain how such a large spike, even one limited to that region, could have occurred and disappeared so quickly. Nothing similar has been observed recently, at least not since Carl Friedrich Gauss, a German mathematician and scientist, made the first measurements in the 1830s. In 2013, scientists including Philip W. Livermore, a professor of earth and environment at the University of Leeds in England, tried to create what he called a model of “perfect storm” in the Earth’s core that could create a significant spike in the magnetic field’s strength. Their models fell short. “It’s simply very difficult to explain,” Dr. Livermore said. “On the flip side, if the spikes really do exist, then they have major implications for how we understand the Earth’s interior.”