 To William Bates, the skeleton he found buried in Australia’s Toorale National Park in 2014 was crying out for help. Its mouth was wide open, and only its skull protruded from the dirt. The rest of its body was trapped beneath the eroding bank of the Darling River. “As soon as I had seen him, I knew he was my ancestor,” said Mr. Bates, a cultural adviser of the Baakantji Aboriginal group in New South Wales. “I just started to cry, and I said ‘I’ll help you, I promise to help you.’” Mr. Bates, known as Badger, went to get his wife, and together they noticed a gash across the skull’s right eye that stretched to the jaw. They didn’t know it at the time, but they had uncovered what scientists now think could be the earliest evidence of a person killed by a boomerang. But at that moment, it appeared as if the person had been struck across the face by a metal blade. They named him Kaakutja, after the Baakantji word for “older brother,” and believed he was probably another victim of frontier violence from the time of British colonization. They reached out to Michael Westaway a paleoanthropologist at Griffith University in Queensland, Australia, to help excavate the skeleton. “We said they could take him away and study him on the conditions that when they are done, they bring him back and we’ll give him a proper burial,” Mr. Bates said. When Dr. Westaway and his team dug up Kaakutja’s remains, they found his body curled in a ball lying on its right hand side, facing upstream. They said it appeared as if the man, who was probably between 20 and 30 when he died, had received a ritual burial and was not hastily disposed of like a murder victim. They noticed several wounds beyond the slash to the face, and performed a CT scan of the bones to better examine the damage. They also sent samples to Rachel Wood, a geochemist at the Australian National University for radiocarbon dating. To their surprise, the radiocarbon dating found that Kaakutja lived between 1260 and 1280, about 500 years before British colonizers first arrived in Australia. To double check, they performed tests on the sand grains found embedded in the skull and sediment from the pit. The optical analysis they did would determine the last time the sediments were exposed to light, which would provide insight into when Kaakutja was buried. The analysis signaled that the burial most likely could have occurred between 1305 and 1525, also before the European arrival. By dating the remains, they changed the interpretation of how Kaakutja met his end. “It showed that the damage must have been done by another aboriginal person, presumably with a wooden artifact rather than metal sword,” Dr. Wood said. It was clear that Kaakutja was killed by a traditional weapon, but the team was puzzled by what that wooden weapon could have been. No one had ever seen trauma such as this in Australia’s archaeological history, they said. They started reading into the ethnohistory of the Aboriginals and looking at cave paintings for clues. The literature directed them to two wooden weapons, the Lil-lil, a type of club, and the Wonna or fighting boomerang. Although closely related to the returning boomerang that people are most familiar with, the blade of the wonna is reminiscent of a saber and it was probably used for close combat. “When it’s used as a fighting club, it’s like a battle ax essentially; it would have been a very fearsome weapon,” said Dr. Westaway, explaining why he believes the murder weapon was a fighting boomerang. “The blow to the front of the face was a rapid shock kind of blow.” The thinking goes that during his final moments, Kaakutja was first struck on the right side of the face with the fighting boomerang, which probably would have taken out his eye and drawn a lot of blood. Then a second blow probably came to his ribs, breaking several of them and causing him to collapse. Kaakutja, now on all fours, was potentially struck a third time across the top of his arm, which hacked off part of the bone. The researchers are not sure which strike was the death blow, but because they didn’t find any defensive wounds on his lower arms, they think the whole struggle was a surprise attack. “This is the first time we’ve found evidence of someone possibly killed by a fighting boomerang,” Dr. Westaway said. “These hardwood weapons leave similar trauma patterns to steel weapons; that was unexpected.” They published their analysis of the death of Kaakutja in the October issue of the journal Antiquity. Claire Smith, an archaeologist from Flinders University in Australia who was not involved in the study, agreed that the evidence supports the idea that Kaakutja was killed by a sharp-edged weapon, either a Lil-lil or a fighting boomerang. “This research is important because it increases our ability to identify the types of wounds caused by the fighting tools of Aboriginal people in the past,” she said in an email. After Dr. Westaway and his team gathered the data they needed to solve the murder mystery, they returned the remains to Mr. Bates and the Baakantji community. At the burial, Mr. Bates placed the bones on top of a kangaroo skin, covered them in dirt and leaves and performed a traditional smoking ceremony, so that together, some 700 years after Kaakutja died, they could lay him back to rest. “We say his spirit made his remains come back,” Mr. Bates said. “We claimed him like a brother, and we kept our promise.”