 Alex Ovechkin knocked his own rebound out of midair and past Matt Murray with 1 minute 7 seconds remaining to give the visiting Washington Capitals a 4-3 victory over the Pittsburgh Penguins on Tuesday night. Ovechkin gave the Capitals a two-games-to-one lead in the increasingly testy Eastern Conference semifinal series when he collected a pass from Nicklas Backstrom and fired a shot that ripped by Murray before hitting the right post. Ovechkin stayed with it and his baseball-like swat gave him a goal in four consecutive games and eight in the playoffs. Matt Niskanen, John Carlson and Chandler Stephenson also scored for Washington, which has won four consecutive road games. Braden Holtby finished with 19 saves. Backstrom had three assists. Jake Guentzel had a goal and an assist for Pittsburgh. Sidney Crosby and Patric Hornqvist also scored, but the Penguins lost consecutive playoff games for only the fourth time since the start of their runs to consecutive Stanley Cups began in 2016. Murray made 18 stops but couldn’t get his glove — a problem area all postseason — on Ovechkin’s initial shot, allowing the Russian star to have a shot at the rebound. Game 4 is Thursday night in Pittsburgh. The game featured a significant uptick in physical play, a byproduct of the pressure and the fallout of the NHL’s decision not to discipline Washington’s Tom Wilson for his high hit in Game 2 on Pittsburgh defenseman Brian Dumoulin, who went into the league’s concussion protocol after Wilson blindsided him while Dumoulin braced for a collision with a charging Ovechkin. Dumoulin was back in the lineup Tuesday, and both teams stressed the need to move forward considering so much is at stake. Wilson claimed the hit was “unavoidable” and “an unfortunate hockey play.” JETS 7, PREDATORS 4 Blake Wheeler scored the go-ahead goal on a power play at 15:01 of the third period and host Winnipeg took a 2-1 series lead in a matchup between the top two teams from the regular season. Wheeler and Brandon Tanev added empty-net goals in the final minute for Winnipeg, which hasn’t lost at home since Feb. 27. Dustin Byfuglien had two goals and an assist for Winnipeg, while Paul Stastny added a goal and two assists. Connor Hellebuyck made 26 saves, including a glove stop on Viktor Arvidsson’s breakaway that could have put the Predators ahead midway through the third. Pekka Rinne saved 38 of 43 shots for Nashville. Nashville took a 3-0 lead in the first before, but Winnipeg scored the next four goals. The Predators tied it again at 7:40 of the third when Filip Forsberg wheeled across the top of the slot on the power play to beat Hellebuyck upstairs with his fifth goal of the playoffs. Game 4 is Thursday night in Winnipeg.