 Paul DeJong made the right decision to give up the scalpel, trumpet and piano to concentrate on baseball. DeJong, a rising star for St. Louis as a 24-year-old shortstop, had the first multihomer game of his young big league career Sunday and helped the Cardinals beat the Mets, 5-1, to avoid an opening three-game sweep. DeJong hit .285 with 25 home runs and 65 R.B.I. as a rookie last year, earning a six-year, $26 million contract. He had 13 homers at Class AAA Memphis before his major league debut on May 28 — when he homered off Colorado closer Greg Holland on his first swing in the majors. “I know that I can consistently hit for power, whether it’s doubles or homers,” DeJong said. A 2015 graduate of Illinois State who majored in biochemistry and pre-medicine, he was selected by the Cardinals in the fourth round of that year’s amateur draft. During spring training last month, when the Cardinals gave him the big contract, he attended several social events of the Palm Beach Symphony — not a regular night-life stop for most big leaguers. “I like all types of music, from Metallica to Chopin,” he said. His younger brother Matthew is in a master’s program for piano at Florida State. “He was always more devoted to music than I was,” DeJong said. “I played the piano, as well. Also the trumpet. But I stopped sophomore year in high school for the trumpet and a little earlier than that for the piano.” DeJong sent a fastball from Steven Matz off the facing of the left-field second deck in the second inning and drove a slider from Jacob Rhame off an advertisement just over the left-field wall in the eighth for his second solo homer. “He’s dangerous,” Cardinals Manager Mike Matheny said. “I won’t put a ceiling on him.” DeJong was 9 for 12 in a series against the Mets just before last year’s All-Star break and now is 15 for 41 against them, with five doubles, six homers and eight R.B.I. over all. He is 3 for 3 with a pair of homers against Matz. “I had two strikes on him, and I left the ball right over the plate,” Matz said. Luke Weaver (1-0) struggled through a 27-pitch first inning in his first outing and gave up a tying single to Amed Rosario in the second. Weaver wound up allowing five hits in five innings, four of them singles. “A grind is like the perfect definition of what it was,” he said. Marcell Ozuna broke out of an 0-for-9 start with three hits, including an R.B.I. double in the third and a run-scoring single in the fifth. Yadier Molina hit a leadoff home run in the fourth for the Cardinals, who were outscored by 15-6 in the first two games. After solid starts by Noah Syndergaard and Jacob deGrom, Matz (0-1) tried to put behind an injury-decimated sophomore season in which he slumped to a 2-7 record. He struggled with his control and was up to 51 pitches after two innings and 73 after three. He lasted four innings, giving up three runs and four hits, as the Mets kept up a terrible trend from last year, when they were 16-36 in series finales. “All three runs I gave up, I had two strikes on the guys,” Matz said. “I was leaving the ball up a lot.”