 Evander Holyfield — the former four-time heavyweight champion and two-time conqueror of Mike Tyson who amassed hundreds of millions of dollars in his boxing career — went to the closet in a hotel room across from Kennedy Airport on Wednesday afternoon and retrieved an iron and ironing board. He went to work on putting a fresh crease into a pair of pants he was planning to wear to the Knicks-Jazz game later that night. “Ain’t nobody can do something better than you can do it yourself,” he said. Holyfield, 55, is now trying to make it as a boxing promoter and using the same qualities in his new role that he used as a fighter: determination, self-reliance and supreme confidence in his own abilities leavened with a dash of modesty and perhaps more than a touch of naïveté. “I always did a little bit more work than everybody else,” Holyfield said of his success in the ring. That, of course, is a gross oversimplification. Hard work alone could never enable a man to beat Larry Holmes, George Foreman and Riddick Bowe, or mercilessly pummel Tyson twice, the second time so humiliatingly that Tyson resorted to biting off a chunk of Holyfield’s ear just eight minutes into their 1997 rematch. What Holyfield was able to accomplish was the result not only of hard work but of superior athletic talent, endurance, durability and self-belief. Such achievements hardly seemed possible with the 6-foot-2, 177½-pound body he took out of the 1984 Olympics. So it comes as little surprise that Holyfield now believes he can conquer the business of boxing the way he once ruled the sport. “If I didn’t think I could be the biggest and the best, I wouldn’t get into this,” Holyfield said. “That’s always been my thing. If I can’t do this better, why even waste my time?” Holyfield’s promotional company, the Real Deal Boxing, will hold its fourth card on Saturday night at Resorts World Casino, which is adjacent to Aqueduct Racetrack in Queens. There will be about 2,000 people in attendance, give or take a couple hundred, and not one of the fighters on the card is yet a household name outside of his or her own home. (There are two women’s bouts on the program.) Nor is there any television coverage, although fans can watch a free live stream on Holyfield’s website, therealdealboxing.com. “We’re not making as much money on this as we would like, but we’re only six months old,” said Eric Bentley, who wears several hats in the company, including chief operating officer and matchmaker. “We’re just trying to build our brand and attract a larger audience. We want fans to see what we’re doing. This whole thing is in its infancy right now.” The main event is a 10-round bantamweight bout between Duke Micah, a Ghanaian living in the Bronx who is unbeaten in 20 fights with 18 knockouts, and Jose Santos Gonzalez, a Mexican journeyman with a 23-4 record. Also on the card is Edgar Berlanga, a New York middleweight whom Holyfield considers one of the jewels of his 36-fighter stable, but he has had just five professional fights, winning all of them by knockout, and is still fighting in six-rounders. “My thing is, I want to give guys the opportunity to become something,” Holyfield said. “I can’t fight for them, but I think they have the ability with the right opportunity. And good guy or bad guy, without promotion, you don’t go nowhere.” It is a lesson Holyfield said he learned from Main Events, the promoters he signed with after returning from the Los Angeles Games with a bronze medal as a light-heavyweight after being disqualified for knocking out New Zealand’s Kevin Barry with a punch ruled to have landed on the break. “They knew everybody,” he said. “All I knew was how to fight.” He learned other lessons, as well, from Don King, who “inherited” him after Holyfield knocked out Tyson in their first bout in 1996. “There was something about me King didn’t like,” Holyfield said. “He used to tell me I needed him to build me up, that I wasn’t a name.” Holyfield, who had won the heavyweight title for the third time with that 11th-round TKO, knew that wasn’t the case. “I grew up in the ghetto, so I know what brainwashing is,” he said. “Make a person feel like they need you or they ain’t nothing. I wasn’t going to fall for that. My mama brought me up smarter than that.” It was from his mother, Annie Holyfield, a cook in a hotel restaurant but also a fine skater and runner, that Holyfield said he believed he inherited his athletic ability. She was also where he came by his toughness. Annie Holyfield, a single mother of nine, instilled in him a sense of responsibility that he carries to this day. He did not meet his father until he was 21. “My mama said life is about accountability,” Holyfield said. “If you take responsibility for things you did, you’ll be a lot better off. If you live a lie, those lies will eat you up.” Lou and Dan Duva of Main Events never quite knew what to make of the quiet, stoic young man who refused to take advantage of his newfound wealth and fame. After they turned pro in November 1984, the Duvas took Holyfield, along with his teammates — the gold medalists Tyrell Biggs, Mark Breland, Pernell Whitaker and Meldrick Taylor — to a mall on a shopping spree. “The other guys were loading up with two and three pairs of basketball shoes,” Holyfield said. “But I wouldn’t take nothing. I didn’t cuss, I didn’t disrespect nobody, and I didn’t ask for nothing. I wasn’t a follower, and they couldn’t understand it. But I felt like, ‘I’m a man, and I can buy my own stuff if I want to.’ I couldn’t even ask nobody for anything when I really needed it.” He said he had taught self-reliance to his nine children, and was now trying to impart the same to his fighters. “I know all of them want to be champions, but I tell them they got to pay the price,” he said. “I don’t lie to them. I tell them, I can’t make you a champion. You’ve got to do the work.” Holyfield, who last fought in 2011 before officially retiring in 2014, squandered much of his fortune on bad investments and dealt with a couple of costly divorces and child support obligations. His $10 million, 109-room home in an Atlanta suburb went into foreclosure. He was accused of buying steroids under a clumsy alias, Evan Fields. He never failed a drug test and denied ever using steroids. “People say: ‘Evander, you’re too nice. You let people take all your money,’ ” he said. “But I didn’t let anyone take anything. People did what they did, and that’s to their discredit. I’ve recovered, and I learned not to put myself in those positions anymore.” It is another lesson he said he hoped to teach as a promoter. Real Deal provides financial counseling, its own medical staff and prefight and postfight cranial imaging to all of its fighters, Bentley said. It is offering “victory bonuses” in addition to its purses as added motivation. And the day after every card, Holyfield said, he will take all of his fighters to a brunch at which he will personally critique each of their efforts from the night before. “He’s a mentor to these kids,” Bentley said. “From the start, Evander’s position has been, we have to transcend the sport. “He has a real chance to do that.”