 His close coaching colleagues call it “the Killer factor,” or “Killer karma.” More than one has noted, with admiration, that “championships seem to follow him around.” Steve Miller, known as Killer since his high school days in Wisconsin as an undersized but fearless hockey and football player, is now trying to bring one to Ohio State. In his first season as the hockey team’s associate head coach, the Buckeyes have won 24 games, their most since 2009, and are a No. 1 seed at the N.C.A.A. men’s hockey tournament for the first time. Ohio State opens against Princeton on Saturday. When Ohio State Coach Steve Rohlik lost his top two assistants from last year’s N.C.A.A. tournament team, he hired Miller as much for his intangibles as his pedigree. Rohlik said he especially valued “the energy he brings every day.” He added: “When the door opens in the morning, the guys just feel it. He connects with players, in all kinds of ways.” The junior forward Mason Jobst said Rohlik described Miller as “the Connor McDavid of assistant coaches,” referring to the Edmonton Oilers star and the reigning N.H.L. most valuable player. Miller, 52, spent last season as the director of hockey operations at the Air Force Academy, which won the Atlantic Hockey championship and reached the N.C.A.A. East Regional final, one stop from its first Frozen Four. Miller arrived at Air Force from Providence College, which won its first N.C.A.A. title in 2015, his only year as an assistant there. He also was an assistant on the United States team that won gold at the 2017 world junior championships, and was George Gwozdecky’s top lieutenant when the University of Denver won consecutive national championships in 2004 and 2005. Miller’s coaching skills have long been recognized. The American Hockey Coaches Association in 2009 presented him the Terry Flanagan Award, which is given annually to an assistant hockey coach, for his career body of work. When U.S.A. Hockey tabbed St. Cloud State’s Bob Motzko to coach the national team at the 2017 world junior championships, Motzko said Miller was one of the first coaches he wanted for his staff. “Wherever he’s been,” Motzko said, “he’s been the glue of the coaching staff.” Gwozdecky hired Miller as a graduate assistant in 1991, his second year at Miami of Ohio, then took him to Denver’s program in 1994. He called Miller “the diamond in that rough piece of coal” when he hired him. Through 19 years at Denver, they forged a deep friendship. Their families have spent holidays together, and Gwozdecky is the godfather of Miller’s oldest child, Alexis. “He’s an extended part of our family,” Gwozdecky said. Denver was Miller’s finishing school, where he eventually graduated to Gwozdecky’s No. 1 assistant. In addition to being responsible for the defense and penalty kill, Miller became a renowned recruiter. Two of his recruits, the defensemen Matt Carle, in 2006, and Will Butcher, in 2017, won the Hobey Baker Award, given to the top men’s college hockey player. Last season, Air Force led the nation in killing penalties at 89.8 percent, a remarkable number. This season, Ohio State ranks first at 89.3 percent, a year after finishing 57th among 60 teams. The Buckeyes also are fifth in goals against, at 2.11 per game. During last year’s N.C.A.A. tournament, Air Force defenseman Johnny Hrabovsky said Miller was “probably the smartest hockey mind I’ve ever been around.” He added, “And he’s one of the funniest guys I’ve ever been around.” Motzko, an assistant with Miller on Gwozdecky’s staff at Miami, said Miller treated his players like his own children and the players “bleed for him.” “Once you’re one of his players, you’re stuck with him for the rest of your life,” Motzko said. “He never leaves you.” Adrian Veideman, who played on two Denver title teams and was a captain his senior year, noted that even after he graduated, Miller would stop in and visit his parents on recruiting trips to British Columbia. At Denver, after the pregame skate on Friday mornings, Miller would lead the informal pickup game for players not in that night’s lineup. “But everyone wanted to play,” Veideman recalled, “because Killer was playing.” Asked what kind of player he was in high school, Miller described himself as a “135-pound power forward.” Miller endears himself to players with his prodigious sports memory as well as a passion for music. He listens to everything from classical to country to opera, and has been known to belt out rap songs when among players. He said he still prepared for games by listening to the same songs, including “Somewhere I Belong” by Linkin Park and “Tsunami” by DVBBS &amp; Borgeous. Providence Coach Nate Leaman called hiring Miller a no-brainer. He said he valued Miller’s hockey I.Q., his ability to prepare teams for championship play and his relentlessly positive disposition. “He’s a really, really easy person to like and enjoy,” Leaman said, although he added, “He has some bite to him.” Veideman, who played 14 years of professional hockey, appreciated Miller’s directness. “He gets right to the point, the good and the bad,” he said. Other than a short, unsatisfying stint as the general manager and coach for a Madison, Wis., franchise in the United States Hockey League, which ended before the team’s first game, Miller has never been a head coach. He said there were a couple of college jobs he went after, but never with gusto. “I like being a sergeant, in the fray with the guys,” he said. Gwozdecky said that Miller would make an outstanding head coach, but that his selfless nature might have kept him under the coaching radar. “He’s never, ever, ever a self-promoter,” Gwozdecky said. “He doesn’t force you to notice him.” Miller says he is content in Columbus, Ohio. His wife and three children, who live outside Denver, are set to join him in Ohio after the season. “I would love to be a head coach if the right opportunity came around, sure, but that’s not what motivates me,” he said. “If I’m never a head coach, I’m good.”