 The Rangers did not lead at any point until the seventh round of the shootout against the visiting Vancouver Canucks on Sunday, but they still managed to earn their fourth straight victory. Jimmy Vesey scored the tying goal early in the third period and added the winner in the seventh round of the shootout to give the Rangers a 4-3 victory. “We have to feel good about what we’ve been doing here the past four weeks,” Rangers Goalie Henrik Lundqvist said after his 417th career N.H.L. victory. “We had a tough time but we got it done tonight with a really strong third. But we should definitely feel good about how we’re playing and finding ways to win games. That’s going to help us moving forward.” Lundqvist made 29 saves to help the Rangers extend their home winning streak to eight games. Vesey tied it at 5 minutes 5 seconds of the third with a nifty forehand-backhand combination for his fifth goal of the season. Rick Nash, who also scored in the shootout, set up the goal with a spinning pass. “The third period was our best. It was a little bit of a slow start,” Nash said. “Good teams find ways to win when they don’t play their best. We found a way to do that.” Jesper Fast and Michael Grabner also scored for the Rangers. Loui Eriksson, Jake Virtanen and Sam Gagner scored for Vancouver, and Jacob Markstrom stopped 17 shots. Grabner tied it 19 seconds into the third with his 10th goal of the season, beating Markstrom with a wrist shot. Gagner put the Canucks back in front 41 second later. Thomas Vanek forced a turnover behind the net and fed Gagner in the slot. “They got one right back and that could hurt you, that can demoralize you,” Shattenkirk said about Gagner’s goal. “We gathered ourselves. We realized we had enough time left to just get one more goal. It didn’t feel as hard as a hill to climb like it was earlier in the game.” Vancouver opened the scoring at 7:54 of the first when Eriksson snapped a wrist shot past Lundqvist. The Canucks made it 2-0 at 7:21 of the second when Jake Virtanen fired a wrist shot over Lundqvist’s glove. The Rangers were unable to clear the puck from the defensive zone, Virtanen pulled it away from the boards and took an uncontested shot. “We have to find ways to win these games when you’re up a couple goals,” Eriksson said. “It’s tough when they come back and win it like this. It’s something we need to do better.”