 ROCK ISLAND, Ill. — The last time Madison Keys was on a Grand Slam stage, her first major final at the United States Open had ended in a bracing 6-3, 6-0 defeat and an embrace from the new champion, her friend Sloane Stephens. As Keys made her way underneath the stands of Arthur Ashe Stadium after the match, she was also comforted by Kim Clijsters, a four-time Grand Slam champion who did not claim her first major title until her fifth final. “She came up to me afterwards and was like, ‘I get it, I understand every emotion, every feeling you’re going through, it took me four,’” Keys said. “To have that right after was really nice and special, especially from someone whom I’ve looked up to for so long.” As days and weeks passed, Keys came to terms with the defeat and began to focus more on her achievement of winning six matches at the tournament. “The disappointment is always going to be there,” Keys, 22, said. “No one who has gotten second place at a Grand Slam is ever like, ‘Yeah, now I feel fine about it.’ Everyone wants the other trophy. But it inspires you to work harder and get yourself in that position again so that you can use what you’ve learned.” Now is her chance to use what she has learned. Heading into the Australian Open, which begins Monday in Melbourne, Keys is happy and healed — physically and emotionally. Keys played only one match after the U.S. Open final — a straight-sets loss in Wuhan, China, to 76th-ranked Varvara Lepchenko — before shutting down her season to fully heal and strengthen her left wrist, which had undergone  two operations since December 2016. The rest of her off-court conditioning work has also intensified, making her quicker and leaner than at any other point of her career. Her coach, Lindsay Davenport, a normally reserved three-time Grand Slam singles champion, expressed unabashed optimism about Keys’s prospects for this season. “I could not be more positive about 2018,” Davenport said. “She’s fitter than I’ve ever seen her, and she’s excited to go out there and play.” Keys starts the year ranked 18th, but Davenport believes Keys should feel limitless, especially given the last season in women’s tennis, which yielded unlikely major champions like Stephens and Jelena Ostapenko, the French Open winner. “I think she goes into the season realizing the success she could have based on the summer’s results and everything that panned out at the U.S. Open,” Davenport said of Keys. “I think all the players know that it’s wide open, and a lot of them say, ‘Why not me? Why can’t that be me holding the trophy like Sloane, like Ostapenko?’ She knows she has an insane amount of talent, she knows she’s a great athlete, and now it’s just about putting it together consistently, working hard, and also believing in herself.” In her lone match before the Australian Open, Keys played at an exceptionally high level but was unable to top the equally in-form Johanna Konta, falling, 4-6, 6-4, 6-3, in the first round of the Brisbane International. Keys cracked several impressive winners with her backhand, a shot that had often troubled her after her wrist injury. Keys, often sarcastic and downtrodden in defeat, was unbowed by the setback. “I haven’t played a match in four months, so it’s like a win for me,” Keys said. Keys, seeded 17th in the Australian Open, will face 44th-ranked Wang Qiang of China in the first round. High hopes are not new to Keys’s career, which quickly accelerated from a fashion choice to a career choice. Spotting the 1999 Wimbledon tournament on a television in her parents’ bedroom, a 4-year-old Madison decided she wanted the dress Venus Williams was wearing. “It was a cutout dress, very racy, and it showed her back,” her mother, Christine Keys, recalled. “She was just walking through and she goes, ‘Oh, can I get one of those dresses?’ I said, ‘Well, you have to play that sport.’ She said, ‘Oh, O.K.! Let’s do that!’ Two weeks later, she goes: ‘Hey, when am I going to get that dress? And the stick?’” Her chance introduction to the sport revealed thunderous talent. After moving from Rock Island to Florida to train at the Evert Tennis Academy, Keys quickly attracted hype. “At 12 they said she was going to win a Slam by the time she was 18,” Christine Keys said. “How unfair is that?” Instead, her career has progressed steadily. Keys turned professional on her 14th birthday and broke into the top 100 just before her 17th. She first cracked the top 10 in the summer of 2016 at age 20, becoming the first American woman to make her top 10 debut since Serena Williams in 1999. While Keys lacked a traditional high school experience, she said her adolescence was hardly short of the tension many girls experience, with the added factors of competing for titles and sponsors. “It was constant, being compared to other girls,” she said. “It still does happen; we still have a number next to our name. You kind of have to dissociate from that. From a very young age, you had to not care what other people were saying.” Keys pointed to her relationship with Stephens, her opponent in the U.S. Open final, as one that could have become particularly strained under the pressure. “Sloane and I, since we were 12 and 14, have constantly been compared to each other,” Keys said. “Sloane would do something amazing, and I wouldn’t, and it would be like, ‘Oh, well, you know, Sloane is just better.’ Then it would flip, and go back and forth. It was amazing, because people were obsessed with comparing us to each other and trying to pit us against each other, and we were supposed to still have a normal friendship. That’s something that takes work, and takes acknowledgment.” Keys continued: “We’ve definitely had to balance it out, and not focus on being jealous, and not make our ambition turn into jealousy. We’ve both done a really good job at continuing to stay friends no matter who is doing what, who is ranked where, or anything else.” That attitude has translated to Keys’s off-court passion: her work with Fearlessly Girl, an anti-bullying organization with the goal of creating a “kinder girl world.” Keys has hosted summits in the Quad Cities region of Illinois and Iowa — she grew up there and is one of the area’s most successful athletic exports — as well as in Florida, where she currently lives. In November, Keys joined Kate Whitfield, the organization’s founder, onstage at Augustana College in Rock Island. The auditorium was full of female students from local high schools, and others watched on a streaming video that reached 22 states and Canadian provinces. After sharing personal anecdotes and discussing insecurities, Keys and Whitfield frequently turned the floor over to the students, who sought advice. Certain questions that Keys fielded, like one about how to overcome stage fright before performing with a school band, seemed simple for an athlete to confidently address. But the open, comfortable atmosphere led to rawer questions. One example: “What should you do when you think no one likes you?” “Oh boy,” Whitfield said after reading the question off a projection screen. “Madison, you want to take this one?” Keys began her answer apprehensively, but quickly grew steadier. “I think you kind of just have to figure out why you’re feeling like that, first of all,” she said. “I’m sure people like you, and I’m sure you would have lots of friends. Maybe you just have to get outside of your comfort zone, and talk to people. Sometimes it takes work to find a great group of friends whom you feel super comfortable and confident with.” Whitfield said Keys had needed little training on how to relate to the girls in their audiences. “You don’t ever know what people are going to say,” Whitfield said of the Fearlessly Girl events. “But there was really no coaching for her.” Whitfield added: “The reason I was so excited about teaming up with her was that it was so authentic and so real. You can’t fake it in front of a room full of teenagers. They can detect that instantly.” Keys’s empathy was fostered by her mother, who made certain not to treat her tennis-playing daughter as any more special than her younger sisters, Montana, now 19, and Hunter, 16. “I was very concerned about making her not the center of attention,” Christine Keys said. “I thought it would be unfair all the way around. I thought it was unfair to her, and I thought it was unfair to her sisters. I was always very conscious of that.” One telling moment came last year: Late in Keys’s run to the U.S. Open final, Montana sent her big sister an essay to proofread. Madison dutifully did it. “Montana forgot that she was playing at the U.S. Open,” Christine Keys said. “There have been multiple times when my girls have come home and asked: ‘What tournament is Madison in? My teacher said she won.’”