 There’s a rugby World Cup going on right now, but it isn’t the Rugby World Cup. Not exactly. The sport being played for the next month in Australia and New Zealand is known as rugby league. To an outsider, it may not look a whole lot different from rugby union, the more popular form of the game. In both kinds of rugby, large people without a lot of padding smash into one another while trying to touch down a ball at the end of the field. But to aficionados, there is a world of difference. Fans of rugby league say the game is more exciting and free-flowing, while rugby union fans enjoy their sport’s traditions and emphasis on defense, kicking and physicality. Rugby union is more familiar to people in the United States, where it is the primary form played at colleges. The rugby union World Cup gets its share of attention worldwide when it comes around every four years. Rugby league, though it too is more than a century old, has spent much of its history trying to keep up with its more famous counterpart. Traditional rugby was founded at the private Rugby School in England in 1845. It was mostly a rich man’s game, and was kept strictly amateur for more than 100 years. Working-class players who hoped to earn some money from the sport were turned away. So rugby league was formed in 1895 as a professional alternative, with its roots in the mining country in the north of England. The game spread to Australia, New Zealand and some parts of France. But it has remained stubbornly regional, with the top league in England struggling to keep a team in London, for example. The rugby league is even sometimes overshadowed by a third form of rugby, the seven-man version added to the Olympics in 2016. On the field, the most significant difference between the sports is that there are 13 players in league, rather than 15. There are also fewer stoppages of play. As a result, the game moves quickly, and many rugby newcomers find watching it more enjoyable than the sometimes slow-moving union. But rugby league has never had the strong economic foothold of the 15-man game. Its World Cup is now held every four years, but has on occasion had gaps of as many as eight years. Because the sport has not spread rapidly around the world, there are big talent differences among teams. Australia has won seven of the last eight World Cups, and at the last event, it beat the United States in the quarterfinals by 62-0, then won its semifinal and final by 64-0 and 34-2. As expected, Australia won the opening game of this year’s World Cup on Friday, defeating England, one of the teams expected to at least give the Australians a fight, by 18-4. The United States, playing in a group of lesser teams, gets underway on Saturday against Fiji. The future could be bright for rugby league. In some ways, league is more like American football. Unlike in rugby union, for example, an offensive series is limited to six tackles, after which possession changes sides, much like the four downs system in football. The head of the Canada Rugby League Association told CBC that the sport would have appeal in his country because it was similar to hockey. The similarities are part of why investors this year started up the Toronto Wolfpack, a Canadian team in the English rugby league. The Wolfpack just completed a successful first season that ended in promotion to the second tier, and there is talk of one or more United States-based clubs in the near future. The World Cup will be coming to the United States and Canada in 2025. If North Americans do embrace the speedy form of the game, rugby league may have the last laugh after all.