 TAMPA, Fla. — Over the past two decades, the N.H.L.’s best players have been participants in the Winter Olympics. But this year, they will have a new role when the Olympic men’s hockey tournament begins Feb. 14: they will be fans. Citing injury concerns, costs and what it called a lack of tangible benefit, the N.H.L. decided not to schedule its customary three-week Olympic break or loan its clubs’ players for the Winter Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea. For many players at last weekend’s All-Star festivities here, the disappointment over being unable to participate has lingered, and it is only starting to give way to a mix of national pride, curiosity and support of friends. “When it all came out, I was pretty angry that we weren’t going to be going, so I told myself that I’m probably not going to watch the Olympics,” said Dallas Stars forward Tyler Seguin, who most likely would have been on the Canadian Olympic team for the first time. “Now as it’s getting closer, I’m realizing that I’m still proud to be Canadian and I am going to watch. But, obviously, it’s going to be pretty bittersweet.” Penguins center Sidney Crosby, who scored the gold medal-winning goal for Canada at the Vancouver Games in 2010, said he had moved on from his frustration to focus on the tasks at hand in Pittsburgh. “You just kind of turn the page and follow like everyone else,” said Crosby, though he added he would be “glued to the TV for two weeks” during the Olympics. Crosby’s foil, Washington wing Alex Ovechkin, has not been so accepting. He was vocal about his dismay after the decision was announced, and talked about leaving the Capitals to join the Russian delegation. During All-Star weekend, Ovechkin shifted between forlornness and irritability. On Saturday, he said some of his most cherished memories were of the Olympics. On Sunday, he was dismissive. “Olympics is not my question right now,” he said. “I’m just a fan right now.” Nashville Predators defenseman P.K. Subban and Edmonton Oilers center Connor McDavid, both Canadians, have found some intrigue in the tournament. “You forget sometimes how good the N.H.L. is, and you realize that when you see how many great players aren’t playing in the N.H.L.,” Subban said. McDavid, 21, the league’s reigning most valuable player and scoring champion, will be missing out on what would have been his first Olympics. He could not help but think of what could have been, he said, considering the depth of talent around the world. “You look at the States, they would have had Kane, Eichel, Matthews,” McDavid said, referring to Patrick Kane, Jack Eichel and Auston Matthews. “Canada could have put together a pretty special team as well. Sweden, Finland, you name it. The game is just at a good point.” Kane, a Chicago Blackhawks right wing, expressed hope that a talented American side could come together in the future. Until then, he said he’d support the group of collegians, former N.H.L. players and pros playing overseas who will represent the United States in South Korea. “I think it’s cool for a lot of these guys that maybe lost their way in hockey and all of a sudden they get a second chance, or some guys who never really got that chance are getting that chance now,” Kane said. Colorado Avalanche forward Nathan MacKinnon, a Canadian, said half a dozen 2018 Olympians had recently passed through the Colorado system, and he counted all of them as friends. Johnny Gaudreau, an American, said he’d be rooting for the United States but also for his former teammate Mason Raymond, who plays professionally in Switzerland and will compete for Canada. For others, it is a family affair. Pekka Rinne, a Finnish goalie for Nashville, will be cheering on his brother-in-law, Mika Pyorala, a forward for Finland. Rangers goalie Henrik Lundqvist’s twin brother, Joel, will be a forward on the Swedish team, as he has on many occasions, including when he and Henrik won the gold medal at the world championships last year. “He’s super excited to go,” Henrik Lundqvist said. “He’s played for the national team so many times in different formats, but this will be his first Olympics.” Lundqvist, San Jose Sharks defenseman Brent Burns and others lamented missing the opportunity to travel to South Korea, a place many of them have never been. Crosby expressed hope that the N.H.L. would participate in the 2022 Games in China. Commissioner Gary Bettman declined to comment on the possibility at a news conference on Saturday. Ottawa Senators defenseman Erik Karlsson, a Swede, said his own absence from the Olympics and that of his peers would not curb his enthusiasm for the event. “I’ve been watching the Olympics since I was a little kid,” he said. “It’s something that I always enjoyed watching whether it’s the winter or the summer. I’ll be following it closely even though it’s unfortunate that we won’t be there.” Los Angeles Kings center Anze Kopitar, the only active Slovenian player in the N.H.L., has deep connections to his national team, but he said he probably would not be staying up late to catch games on TV. He said commitments to the Kings and his children would take precedence over paying attention to the Olympics. But Vegas Golden Knights goalie Marc-Andre Fleury, a former Canadian Olympian, was undaunted by the 17-hour time difference between Nevada and South Korea. “I’ll be watching for sure,” he said. “It’s tough with the time zone change and games on in the middle of the night. But hey, we’ve got DVR. I’m sure there will be a few bets in the room and it will be fun to keep track of it.” For some, even talking about the Olympics was not so fun. Even the Tampa Bay Lightning captain Steven Stamkos, who had been a smiling, accommodating host during All-Star weekend, grew stern when asked how closely he would follow the Olympic tournament. “If we’re not playing and if it’s on, maybe I’ll catch a game,” he said. Stamkos, who could not play on the Canadian team at the 2014 Games because of a broken leg, said players were still very disappointed and angry, and that many would not be watching for that reason. “That’s not to say you won’t support your country, you absolutely are,” he said, “but there’s still a pretty sour taste in everyone’s mouths about that whole situation.”