 From college basketball’s beginnings until 2009, no coach reached 1,000 victories. “It’s a hard number to even comprehend,” Pat Summitt, the longtime Tennessee coach, told reporters after she became the first coach to achieve the milestone. On Tuesday, less than a decade after Summitt reached the mark, two more coaches joined her in a matter of hours: Sylvia Hatchell of North Carolina and Geno Auriemma of Connecticut. The 1,000-win club growing by two members in a single season would have been remarkable, but for it to happen in a single day was almost unbelievable, and it left the two Hall of Fame coaches struggling to convey what it meant to them. “As far as the 1,000 wins, gosh, I just can’t believe I’ve coached that many games,” Hatchell said after U.N.C. defeated Grambling State. Auriemma was overcome with emotion when asked to address the crowd at the Mohegan Sun Arena after a win over Oklahoma. “We gave everything we had to this,” he said, referring to himself and the small group of coaches and staff that have been by his side over the years. He added: “We’ve gotten more back than we ever deserved.” Hatchell had a 10-year head start on Auriemma to her coaching career, and a five-hour head start on Tuesday — her game started at 2 p.m. while Auriemma’s began at 7 p.m. But while she may not have quite the résumé of her UConn counterpart she has had a tremendous career. She is the only college coach to win championships at three levels, and took her 1,000th win in stride, crediting her players for the success that has led to her combined record of 1,000-376 at North Carolina and Francis Marion. She spoke of her players almost as family, saying: “They’re a great group of kids. I scream, yell and holler at them but I’ve told them, ‘Except for your mom and dad there’s nobody who will do more for you than Coach Hatchell will.’” In Hatchell’s latest victory, her Tar Heels trailed Grambling State after a quarter, but a 19-3 run beginning late in the third quarter helped push them to a 79-63 victory. With the win, North Carolina improved to 10-2 in Hatchell’s 32nd season with the team, her 43rd over all. While her current squad is not ranked in the Top 25, Hatchell has career highlights that include winning an N.C.A.A. championship with North Carolina in 1994 and two titles with Francis Marion: an A.I.A.W. championship in 1982 and an N.A.I.A. championship in 1986. The 65-year-old Hatchell, who is a cancer survivor, said that after all these years she still had a lot to offer to her players. “I still get nervous and get the jitters, but it’s the good jitters before all the games,” she said. “Whenever I lose that, that will be time to let somebody else do it. But I’ve got it now just as much as ever.” Auriemma’s record of 1,000-135 mostly speaks for itself, but he also has 11 national championships and the two longest winning streaks in collegiate history. On Tuesday, the top-ranked Huskies beat Oklahoma, 88-64, with Napheesa Collier scoring a game-high 21 points. While the 24-point margin of victory was fairly standard for Connecticut, the game was close for a time, as the Sooners pulled to within 7 points midway through the third quarter before fading quickly. With the wins, Hatchell and Auriemma joined Summitt (1,098-208) and Stanford’s Tara VanDerveer (1,018-235) as the only women’s coaches with 1,000 wins. In the men’s game, the only Division I coach with 1,000 or more wins is Duke’s Mike Krzyzewski (1,082-330), while three other men’s coaches (Harry Statham, Herb Magee and Danny Miles) have reached 1,000 wins at lower levels. Possibly as early as this season the 1,000-win club may need to make room for another member, as C. Vivian Stringer of Rutgers is at 989 wins and counting.