 MINNEAPOLIS — When the Philadelphia Eagles claimed their first Super Bowl championship on Sunday, their franchise quarterback Carson Wentz wasn’t brought up onto the podium for the interviews broadcast on the stadium screens. He did not partake in the postgame confetti snow angels. Wentz, 25, had been a presence in Minneapolis all week, showing up for media events, reviewing film with the backup-turned-starting quarterback Nick Foles and even throwing passes to teammates before kickoff on Sunday. But he also took care not to be the center of attention. Since he tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee during the Eagles’ Week 14 win over the Los Angeles Rams, Wentz has been around his team but no longer its public face. And after Philadelphia stunned the New England Patriots, 41-33, to win in Super Bowl LII on Sunday, he still didn’t want to be in the middle of the news media scrum, telling reporters, “Just let me celebrate with my teammates.” A Super Bowl victory had been the ultimate goal when the Eagles drafted Wentz second over all in 2016, and for most of this season that seemed to be where he and Philadelphia were headed. But after tearing his A.C.L., Wentz went from piloting the Eagles to an 11-2 start and being mentioned as a possible league most valuable player to preparing his backup to shepherd the team in the playoffs. “Last year, I went to the Super Bowl and did appearances and everything,” Wentz said here early last week. “I said, ‘I’m not coming back until I’m playing in it.’ Here I am, and I’m actually not playing in it.” When it lost Wentz, the Philadelphia offense initially struggled to adjust. But as Foles found his footing, the Eagles embraced an underdog image even as they locked up the No. 1 seed in the N.F.C. Wentz’s teammates and the Eagles’ coaching staff said he had been instrumental in the championship campaign, even though he never took a snap in it. He sat in on quarterback meetings after his injury and offered Foles tips in film sessions — helping him shine during the playoff victories against Atlanta and Minnesota that secured Philadelphia’s Super Bowl bid. “Carson instilled a confidence, a swagger and a belief,” the Eagles offensive coordinator Frank Reich said. “That’s the kind of leader and player he is.” But on Sunday, with confetti in the air and Philadelphia fans cheering, it was hard to spot Wentz on the field. He was one of the first people to congratulate Foles, giving him an extended hug after the game clock expired, then receded into the background. In the locker room, Wentz lumbered around with a slight hitch in his step — refraining from dancing around to Meek Mill and bathing in champagne with his teammates, likely for fear of putting his injured leg at risk. He chatted with tight end Zach Ertz, who scored the game’s go-ahead touchdown, and the third-string quarterback Nate Sudfeld. What will happen next season when Wentz returns didn’t seem to be a question that needed an immediate answer Sunday night. Wentz, who is in the middle of a four-year contract, is slotted to return for the 2018 season, presumably leaving Foles to return to his backup quarterback spot — or find a way to move to a new team looking for a starter. “Let’s sit, let’s sit, let’s take our moment,” Foles said to Wentz and Sudfeld, plopping down in between them on the folding chair in front of his locker when he finished his postgame interviews. “Let’s take our moment,” Wentz said, still smiling.