 Stephen Curry waited all of 11 seconds before he launched his first 3-pointer of the playoffs. It found its way home. A few minutes later, with the defense giving him some room, he launched from 32 feet, and again connected. “He was Steph,” Coach Steve Kerr said at his postgame news conference. “He doesn’t take long to warm up, that’s for sure.” After an inconsistent regular season, the Golden State Warriors started 5-1 in these N.B.A. playoffs, erasing any doubts about their worthiness as a legitimate title contender. Now, as they appear to be hitting their stride, the defending champions were bolstered by the return of Curry, the most dangerous shooter in N.B.A. history, who came off the bench for his first action following a 38-day absence thanks to a strained medial collateral ligament in his left knee. It was like he never left as he led his team to a 121-116 victory over the New Orleans Pelicans in Game 2 of their second-round playoff series. The two-time winner of the league’s Most Valuable Player Award checked in with 4 minutes 20 seconds left in the first quarter, and the Warriors trailing by 18-11. But by the end of the first half, thanks to Curry’s sharpshooting and a last-second 3-pointer by Klay Thompson, Golden State had a 58-55 lead. It was more of the same in the second half, with Golden State looking like a far superior team whenever Curry was on the court, even with Thompson having a mostly awful night offensively. When all was said and done, Curry had shot 8 for 15 from the field, 5 for 10 from 3-point range, and he had scored 28 points, which trailed only Kevin Durant’s 29 for the game-high. Curry appeared to move well on his injured knee, contributing seven rebounds and three steals to go with his solid shooting. The Warriors needed every bit of it, as the team outscored the Pelicans by 26 points in Curry’s 27 minutes on the floor and were outscored by 11 in the 21 minutes he was on the bench. Golden State now holds a 2-0 lead in the best-of-seven series and will travel to New Orleans for Friday’s Game 3. Kerr had said on Monday that there was no consideration of delaying Curry’s return once he was medically cleared to return. The decision for Curry to come off the bench was a result of the team having played well in Game 1 with Nick Young in the starting lineup and Kerr looking to manage Curry’s workload to an extent. “We knew we wanted to play him 25 minutes or so, not so much based on his knee but based on his conditioning,” Kerr said after the game, explaining that Curry had essentially received the minutes the team would previously have given to Quinn Cook. Asked by TNT’s David Aldridge after the game if he was interested in a sixth-man role for the Warriors after his successful stint off the bench, Curry declined. “Not at all,” he said with a laugh. “I’ll be back where I should be soon.” Curry, who turned 30 in March, averaged 26.4 points, 6.1 assists and 5.1 rebounds a game this season, while shooting 49.5 percent from the field and 42.3 percent from 3-point range. His career mark of 43.6 percent from 3-point range is the best in N.B.A. history among players with 2,000 or more career attempts. While the timing of the injury was slightly different, the situation certainly recalls the 2016 playoffs when Curry, slowed by an M.C.L. sprain in his right knee sustained in the Warriors’ first-round series against the Houston Rockets, proceeded to miss Golden State’s next four games. Curry had flashes of brilliance in the subsequent 16 games that playoff season, including 40 points in his first game back after the injury, but there were some who blamed his not being 100 percent for the 73-win Warriors going on to blow a 3-1 lead over the Cleveland Cavaliers in the N.B.A. Finals. The Warriors are hoping their patience in Curry’s recovery this time will lead to different results.