 The Atlanta Falcons getting another crack at the New England Patriots trumps any other game this week. And while neither team has looked particularly sharp, with both seemingly suffering from a Super Bowl hangover, the game is of particular importance to the Falcons, a team that may be in free-fall. Here are our picks against the spread for N.F.L. Week 7. Falcons at Patriots, 8:30 p.m., NBC Line: Patriots by 3 Since February, the Falcons (3-2) have been dogged by people bringing up the score 28-3. That was the lead Atlanta had over the Patriots (4-2) in Super Bowl LI before an epic collapse led to them losing, 34-28 in overtime. With the rematch between the teams looming on Sunday night, a more relevant score may be 17-0: That is the lead the Falcons surrendered last week in a 20-17 loss to Miami. It is one thing to lose to one of the greatest combinations of coach and quarterback in N.F.L. history. It is another to have Jay Cutler and the Dolphins run up 20 consecutive points while beating you at home. The loss was the second consecutive defeat for the Falcons, and the second game in which the team’s high-powered offense could muster only 17 points. And the inability to close out games extends even to Atlanta’s last victory, which came against Detroit in Week 3. If not for a last-second touchdown being overturned because of a player falling about a foot short of the goal line, that too would have been a loss after leading late in the game. It is not hard to figure out why the Falcons struggle to maintain leads, as the team stubbornly continues to pass nearly 60 percent of the time even when they are winning by a wide margin. At some point they may have to realize that the combination of Devonta Freeman and Tevin Coleman running the ball gives them the ability to chew up the remaining clock. Sunday night offers the Falcons an opportunity to exact some mild revenge against the team that crushed their Super Bowl dreams. Instead, Atlanta players have spent the week insisting nothing is wrong with their offense and being annoyed by questions about what a rematch against the Patriots means to them. The Falcons may want to put the drama behind them, but the only way to do that is to march into Foxborough and steal a win on the road. The odds of that currently seem slim. Pick: Patriots Cardinals at Rams, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Rams by 3.5 The Cardinals (3-3) found a portal to 2015 last week. Carson Palmer was throwing touchdown passes, Adrian Peterson was slashing through the defense, and the Cardinals ran up a huge lead. The reality of it being 2017, however, began to encroach in the second half, as Tampa Bay nearly stormed back for a comeback win behind Ryan Fitzpatrick, the team’s backup quarterback. It was fun to see Peterson excelling on the field like in the days of yore, but the Rams (4-2) are a much tougher opponent, and their younger stars may have less trouble adjusting to the timing of the game, which will be held at London’s Twickenham Stadium. Pick: Rams Panthers at Bears, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Panthers by 3 It would be easy to be down on the Panthers (4-2) after Cam Newton’s hot streak came screeching to a halt with three interceptions in a 28-23 loss to Philadelphia. But interceptions, just like losses, are not all created equal. Last week, one of Newton’s interceptions was caused by intense pressure, and the other was a result of his player mistakenly tipping a well-thrown ball to a defender. With a little more luck on either play, the Panthers would be 5-1 and Newton would be in the M.V.P. debate. The Bears (2-4) had considerably better luck in an overtime win over Baltimore that defies description but counted as a win for Mitchell Trubisky no matter how little the rookie quarterback was involved in the final score. Pick: Panthers Chiefs at Raiders, 8:25 p.m. (Thursday), CBS and NFL Network Line: Chiefs by 3 The Chiefs (5-1) are coming off their first defeat of the season, and while they looked awful on Sunday night, they were playing against a Pittsburgh defense that is among the stingiest in the N.F.L. The Raiders (2-4) are better defensively than they were a year ago, but they do not possess the elite speed of the Steelers, and with Kansas City bolstered by Tyreek Hill’s neck injury not proving to be serious, the Chiefs seem poised to get back to their winning ways, sending their rival to a fifth consecutive defeat. Pick: Chiefs Saints at Packers, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Saints by 5.5 You will probably hear the name Matt Flynn a lot this week. But regardless of his strong relief performances in 2010 and 2011, the Packers (4-2) of the last few decades simply do not have enough experience playing without an elite quarterback to have any sort of pattern to decipher. In the team’s last 390 regular season games (a streak that stretches back to include Brett Favre’s final 15 seasons with the team), just nine have featured a quarterback starting other than Favre or Aaron Rodgers, and despite Flynn having won four of the games, Green Bay’s record is 4-4-1. The team is insisting it is comfortable with Brett Hundley at quarterback against the Saints (3-2), and there are a lot of teams the Packers could probably beat through decent work by their front-seven on defense and some shared running between Aaron Jones and Ty Montgomery on offense. But Green Bay will potentially be playing without either of its starting offensive tackles, and that is not a recipe for a rookie quarterback outdueling Drew Brees. Pick: Saints Ravens at Vikings, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Vikings by 5.5 The Ravens have lost three of their last four games, and the lone win came against Oakland with E.J. Manuel at quarterback. Last week they seemed to show some fight, clawing their way back into a game against Chicago with their return specialists delivering both of the team’s touchdowns and Justin Tucker accounting for the rest of the scoring with field goals. A similarly weird game against the Vikings (4-2) is unlikely, so the Ravens will presumably have to score by finding holes in Minnesota’s defense that just aren’t there. The quarterback position for the Vikings is firmly in Case Keenum’s hands this week, and while it may plunge into chaos once both Sam Bradford and Teddy Bridgewater are healthy, this brief moment of stability is undoubtedly a welcome change.  Pick: Vikings Bengals at Steelers, 4:25 p.m., CBS Line: Steelers by 5.5 Winning tends to turn the volume down on disagreements, and the Steelers (4-2) did not just beat the previously undefeated Chiefs last week, but they did so by getting fantastic performances from two of the team’s disgruntled stars, Le’Veon Bell and Antonio Brown. The two accounted for 346 yards from scrimmage, and the team’s defense, as it has all season, simply smothered their opponents’ passing game. A one-week resurgence is not enough to declare Pittsburgh’s offense cured, but each and every week the Steelers’ defense has gone out and made opponents work for every single yard, and the Bengals (2-3) do not seem like a team that can break through against them on the road. Pick: Steelers Jaguars at Colts, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Jaguars by 3 The win-every-other-week pattern is holding strong for the Jaguars (3-3). The team creates many of its own problems — last week 14 of the 27 points they allowed were on special teams plays — creating a frustrating situation in which they can seem like a contender one week and then fall flat on their faces the next. There is no question that the team’s secondary is incredible, and Leonard Fournette, the rookie running back, has lived up to the hype with at least one touchdown in each of his six N.F.L. games thus far. But the Jaguars do not have a quarterback capable of carrying the team to victory when the defense or special teams slip up, so every week will be challenging. Pick: Jaguars Cowboys at 49ers, 4:05 p.m., Fox Line: Cowboys by 6 Legal action by the N.F.L. Players’ Association cleared the way for Ezekiel Elliott to play for at least one more week before his suspension proceeds (or is thrown out), which is good news for the Cowboys (2-3) and bad news for the 49ers (0-6). Elliott has had a frustrating sophomore season, but he ran for 116 yards against Green Bay two weeks ago, and coming out of his team’s bye-week he will face an inexperienced front-seven in San Francisco that got even younger when the team released NaVorro Bowman. Pick: Cowboys Buccaneers at Bills, 1 p.m., Fox Line: N/A With a fully-healthy Jameis Winston, the Buccaneers (2-3) would stand a reasonable chance of pulling off a road win in Buffalo, but with the best-case scenario being Winston playing with a sprained AC joint, and the worst being Tampa Bay starting Ryan Fitzpatrick, the Bills (3-2) defense should take care of securing a win. Pick: Bills Broncos at Chargers, 4:25 p.m., CBS Line: Chargers by 1 The Chargers cannot hide from the team’s 0-4 start, but they played hard in each of those games and barely lost in three of them. Without changing much, they have suddenly won two in a row, and they may stretch it to three if they can replicate the Giants’ success against the Broncos (3-2). With Melvin Gordon running, Antonio Gates and Hunter Henry at tight end, and the Chargers defense harassing Siemian, they might do just that. Pick: Chargers Jets at Dolphins, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Dolphins by 3 The Jets (3-3) had won three consecutive games, and last week they lost one to the Patriots that they probably could have won, if not for an overturned touchdown that seemed suspicious. The Dolphins (3-2) have routinely played poorly, but have also had a knack for bringing their opponents down to their level, which has resulted in a winning record that seems to defy reason considering the team has averaged just 242.8 yards of offense a game, nearly 30 fewer than the team with the second-worst offense (the Bills). With unlikely wins for both teams, picking between them feels like using lottery winnings to buy more lottery tickets, but a tie seems unlikely. Pick: Dolphins Seahawks at Giants, 4:25 p.m., CBS Line: Seahawks by 5.5 The Giants (1-5) appear as if they will have an actual wide receiver on the active roster this week, with Sterling Shepard practicing and on track to return to the team after a one-game absence. It would help if he could bring several friends with him, but barring that, the Giants will have to work something out among him, Orleans Darkwa and Evan Engram in hopes of pulling off an upset on their turf against the visiting Seahawks (3-2). Despite their personnel problems, the Giants have managed between 22 and 24 points in each of the team’s last four games, so even if Seattle can come away with the win, covering a spread of more than 5 points seems unlikely. Pick: Giants Titans at Browns, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Titans by 6 At some point the Browns (0-6) are going to win a game. There is a reason that there have been only four winless teams in N.F.L. history, and that’s the volatility of the game can lead to even the worst teams occasionally scraping by with a win. For six weeks in a row, everything has gone against Cleveland, but this week they host the Titans (3-3), and with Marcus Mariota somewhat limited by a hamstring injury, the opportunity is there to either win the game or at least cover the 6-point spread. Pick: Browns Redskins at Eagles, 8:30 p.m., ESPN Line: Eagles by 4.5 The standard box score for last week’s game between Philadelphia and Carolina shows the Eagles (5-1) having two sacks. Anyone who watched the game knows that Cam Newton’s day was not nearly so peaceful. Philadelphia’s defense, bolstered by the return of Fletcher Cox, put Newton under intense pressure, recording eight hurries and nine quarterback hits. The pressure played a large part in two of Newton’s three interceptions. This should all be familiar to Washington’s Kirk Cousins, because in Week 1 the Eagles beat the Redskins (3-2) largely through the relentless pressure resulting in five hurries and nine quarterback hits to go with four sacks. Cousins is probably dreading the rematch. Pick: Eagles Record against the spread last week: 2-12 Record overall: 39-52