 If not for Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliott’s suspension, a clash between Philadelphia and Dallas would have been the marquee matchup of N.F.L. Week 11. But Sunday now appears to have other games that should top it for excitement. The streaking Saints and Vikings will try to stay hot against quality teams, and the Patriots will try to maintain their defensive improvement. In games of lesser note, the Browns will keep searching for their first win, the Chiefs will try to stop a steep decline and the Bills, for some reason, will try out a new quarterback. Here are our picks against the spread. Last week’s record against the spread: 6-7-1 Overall record: 70-72-4 Redskins at Saints, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Saints by 7.5 The elements were all there last week for a big rushing day by the Saints (7-2). They had two quality running backs who were playing well, they were playing a team that has struggled to stop the run and they were playing outdoors in conditions more suited to running than passing. But even the most generous prognosticators could not have anticipated New Orleans reeling off 298 rushing yards and six rushing touchdowns in one of the most dominant performances in N.F.L. history. The reliance on the running game — at one point, New Orleans ran on 24 consecutive offensive plays — was shocking to people who are used to Drew Brees carving up defenses with his passing. But while New Orleans still receives far-above-average performances from Brees, the team has relied more and more on the running game. A load-sharing strategy between Mark Ingram and Alvin Kamara has the team on a pace for nearly 2,300 rushing yards and the two players in line to combine for more than 3,000 yards from scrimmage. This week, the Saints are not playing the Bills. The Redskins (4-5) will not make anyone forget the 2000 Baltimore Ravens, but they are middle of the pack in nearly every measurable form of run defense. So while Ingram and Kamara may still perform well, anyone expecting a repeat of last week is likely to be disappointed. Of course, the Saints still have the ageless Brees and are playing at home, and Washington is ranked in the bottom half of the N.F.L. in pass defense. So a team that is rising in leaguewide respect on offense and defense may put on just as good a show, even if it comes together in a different way. Pick: Saints Rams at Vikings, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Vikings by 2 The Vikings (7-2) are in quite a pickle. They have Teddy Bridgewater, the team’s preferred starting quarterback, healthy and ready to play, but Case Keenum, a journeyman backup, has led the team to five consecutive wins — four as a starter and one in relief of Sam Bradford. And it is not as if Keenum has just been along for the ride; he has played the best football of his career. For now, the job belongs to Keenum. But he and the Vikings have a tough task against Keenum’s former team, the surging Rams (7-2). Keenum’s replacement in Los Angeles, Jared Goff, has led the way for the N.F.L.’s top-scoring offense (32.9 points a game), and thanks to some refinement by the defensive coordinator Wade Phillips, the Rams also have the league’s third best scoring defense (18 points a game). No one would have guessed it before the season started, but this is absolutely a matchup of two of the five or six best teams in the N.F.L., and whichever team comes out on top will have bragging rights for weeks. Pick: Vikings Eagles at Cowboys, 8:30 p.m., NBC Line: Eagles by 3.5 The timing could not be worse for the Cowboys (5-4) to be hosting the Eagles (8-1). In last week’s debut of the Ezekiel Elliott-free version of Dallas’s offense, Dak Prescott was decidedly mortal, producing 176 passing yards on 5.87 yards an attempt (the fifth lowest mark of his career). Losing Elliott to a six-game suspension meant not only a major downgrade in the running game, but also the elimination of the star running back as a threat on play-action passes. Knowing that Dallas would be passing, Atlanta went hard after Prescott on every play, and feasted with eight sacks. Now Dallas will be dealing with a Philadelphia defense led by Fletcher Cox that is infinitely more terrifying than Atlanta’s, while Dallas’s defense, which had shown some improvement, will be stuck trying to slow down Carson Wentz and the Eagles’ offense. It looks like Dallas is headed back to .500. Pick: Eagles Patriots at Raiders, 4:25 p.m., CBS Line: Patriots by 6.5 It is hard to complain about a 41-16 victory, but the Patriots (7-2) allowed enough yardage last week against a Denver offense led by Brock Osweiler for it to qualify as troubling. The good news is that New England has picked a fantastic season to work through some issues, as the A.F.C. has been awful. There is a chance that Derek Carr could regain some of his mojo from last season, which would put a ton of pressure on New England’s secondary, but the Raiders (4-5) just don’t seem to have the right pieces to succeed. Pick: Patriots Titans at Steelers, 8:25 p.m. (Thursday), NBC and NFL Network Line: Steelers by 7 An emphasis on these teams coming in with matching four-game win streaks ignores the fact that they were playing mostly bad teams and neither managed to dominate the competition. It is not that wins against teams like the Colts, Bengals and Browns don’t count in the standings, but it is hard to extrapolate too much from lopsided matchups. There is no question that the Titans (6-3) have shown improvement, and they should continue to do so against the Steelers (7-2), who will be playing without Joe Haden, a veteran cornerback, who is out with a fractured fibula. Pick: Titans Ravens at Packers, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Ravens by 2 The Packers (5-4) not only won last week, but they also managed some legitimate moments of excitement on offense for the first time since Aaron Rodgers’s injury. Brett Hundley appeared far more confident and produced his best game as a pro. The win, however, should be taken with a grain of salt, as it came against Chicago. It will not be easy to repeat the success with Aaron Jones out and Ty Montgomery questionable, which could leave Green Bay with Jamaal Williams and Devante Mays at running back. But the Ravens (4-5) have been awful recently, with the exception of a fluky win over lowly Miami, so Hundley may get the Packers back to two games over .500, which seemed impossible two weeks ago. Pick: Packers Jaguars at Browns, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Jaguars by 7.5 The improvement of the run defense for the Jaguars (6-3) no longer seems like a fluke, and Jacksonville has somehow become the third best team in the A.F.C. If the team had a more consistent offense, it would be perfect, but in most weeks, the Jaguars have figured out a way, either through Blake Bortles or Leonard Fournette, to put up enough points to let the defense win the game for them. The Browns (0-9) have a tendency to bring their opponents down to their level, which probably means a fourth consecutive win for Jacksonville, but a failure to cover the large point spread. Pick: Browns Lions at Bears, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Lions by 3 The Lions (5-4) have won two games in a row, and according to The Upshot’s Playoff Simulator, they are up to a 33 percent chance of qualifying for postseason play. There is a chance Detroit is looking past this matchup to focus on Week 12’s division battle with Minnesota, but taking care of business in an extremely winnable road game against a struggling team like the Bears (3-6) is one of the little things a team has to do before it can be taken seriously. Pick: Lions Chiefs at Giants, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Chiefs by 10.5 The Chiefs (6-3) have lost three of their last four games, but what should really be troubling is the fact that Kareem Hunt, the team’s rookie running back, has been held to 47.8 rushing yards a game in that span after he averaged 121.8 yards in the first five games of his career. The Giants (1-8) are bad at everything, so a nice bounce-back week for Kansas City seems in order, with the only hitch being the unlikelihood of it covering a double-digit point spread. Pick: Giants Bills at Chargers, 4:05 p.m., Fox Line: Chargers by 4 The Bills (5-4) have not made the playoffs since 1999 and have managed a winning record in only two seasons since then. They are in line for the A.F.C.’s second wild-card entry into the playoffs, so most people would probably envision them doing everything they can to hold on to that spot. Instead, Buffalo’s response to a pair of losses caused almost entirely by failures of its run defense was to bench its starting quarterback. Out goes Tyrod Taylor and in goes Nathan Peterman, a rookie drafted in the fifth round out of Pittsburgh who has thrown 10 career passes (all last week). Unless Peterman plans to run onto the field to tackle Melvin Gordon and Austin Ekeler of the Chargers (3-6) as the two running backs repeatedly streak past Buffalo defenders, it is hard to see how this move will benefit the Bills. Pick: Chargers Bengals at Broncos, 4:25 p.m., CBS Line: Broncos by 2.5 The Broncos (3-6) are on a five-game losing streak, but the last three came against Kansas City, Philadelphia and New England. Sure, Denver looked bad, but most teams look bad against those powerhouses. The Bengals (3-6) are not nearly as scary, and the combination of a more palatable opponent and home-field advantage should get Denver its first win since Oct. 1. Pick: Broncos Cardinals at Texans, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Cardinals by 1 The Texans (3-6) have scored just two offensive touchdowns in the two weeks since Deshaun Watson was lost for the year. But they may have the better offense in this game if Drew Stanton of the Cardinals (4-5) is unable to play because of a knee injury. If there was ever a game not to televise, it would be Tom Savage against Blaine Gabbert. Pick: Texans Buccaneers at Dolphins, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Dolphins by 1 Fantasy football players may check in on this game to see if Kenyan Drake, Miami’s second-year running back, can break off another huge run, as he has in the last two weeks. Otherwise, it is hard to see how anyone could be excited to watch Ryan Fitzpatrick and the Buccaneers (3-6) take on the mostly lifeless Dolphins (4-5). Pick: Buccaneers Falcons at Seahawks, 8:30 p.m., ESPN Line: Seahawks by 3 Earl Thomas is expected to be back for the Seahawks (6-3) for the first time since Week 8. While he was out with a hamstring injury, Seattle lost Richard Sherman for the year to a ruptured Achilles’ tendon. The Legion of Boom will still be strong up the middle with Thomas and Kam Chancellor, but trying to defend Atlanta’s wide receivers with cornerbacks Shaq Griffin, Jeremy Lane and Justin Coleman seems unlikely, which could mean a second consecutive victory for the Falcons (5-4). Pick: Falcons.