 The Pittsburgh Steelers started off Sunday with a huge morale boost from an appearance by Ryan Shazier, the linebacker who sustained a frightening back injury two weeks ago. Then the team took a nearly proportional blow when Antonio Brown was knocked out of the game with a calf injury. But the true emotional ringer came in the final minute of the game at Heinz Field, when a controversially overturned touchdown catch and an interception resulted in a gutting Pittsburgh loss to the New England Patriots, 27-24. The reversal of fortune, which came after what was initially ruled a 10-yard touchdown pass from Ben Roethlisberger to Jesse James with 34 seconds left, prevented the Steelers from clinching a first-round bye in the playoffs and opened up the race for home-field advantage, with the Steelers (11-3), the Patriots (11-3) and the Jacksonville Jaguars (10-4) still in contention. New England clinched the A.F.C. East title with the victory. Despite the loss of Brown early in the second quarter to a serious calf injury, the Steelers led until the final minutes of the fourth. But with just over two minutes remaining, the Patriots reeled off a 77-yard drive in just 70 seconds, scoring a go-ahead touchdown on an 8-yard run by Dion Lewis with 56 seconds left. A 2-point conversion pass from Tom Brady to Rob Gronkowski made it a 3-point game. The Steelers faced long odds as they started a drive from their own 21-yard line, but they came back to life on a wild catch-and-run by JuJu Smith-Schuster, a rookie wide receiver, who got the ball on a crossing route and broke free of the coverage on the sideline. In a play that seemed like something out of a video game, Smith-Schuster streaked all over the field, shedding numerous defenders along the way, and was finally brought down after a 69-yard gain. On the next play, Roethlisberger found James for the apparent touchdown catch, but after a review it was determined that James did not “survive” his contact with the ground, and the call was overturned. Two plays later, Duron Harmon intercepted a tipped pass from Roethlisberger, sealing the game. Asked why James was ruled to not make the catch despite having controlled the ball without being touched on his way into the end zone, Tony Corrente, the game’s referee, said a lack of contact was irrelevant. ”As he hit the ground, the ball began to roll and rotate and the ball hit the ground,” Corrente said, “that’s the end at that point.” At his postgame news conference, Coach Mike Tomlin of the Steelers said he could not see the disputed play well enough to know how he felt about the call, though he was resigned to the outcome. “It’s really irrelevant how I feel about it,” Tomlin said. “It’s not going to change the outcome of the game. I’m not going to cry over spilled milk.” Pittsburgh came into the game on an eight-game winning streak, but the team now faces a stiff fight for home-field advantage throughout the playoffs over the next couple of weeks, potentially without the help of Brown. The team had yet to update Brown’s status Sunday evening, beyond saying he was taken to a hospital for further evaluation of a calf injury, but he did not appear capable of putting any weight on his left leg as he was helped off the field. An extended absence by Brown, the N.F.L.’s leader in both receptions and receiving yards, would be a huge blow to Pittsburgh’s Super Bowl aspirations. In recent weeks, Brown had been mentioned as a potential candidate for the N.F.L.’s Most Valuable Player Award, and on the first of his two catches on Sunday, he secured his fifth consecutive season with 100 or more receptions. The Patriots got back to the top of the A.F.C. standings thanks to Brady’s impressive final drive. He completed 22 of 35 passes for 298 yards, one touchdown and one interception for the day, and was at his best on that final drive, repeatedly finding Gronkowski for huge gains before letting Lewis take the ball in for the score. Pittsburgh has two fairly easy matchups remaining on its schedule, playing at the Houston Texans next week before closing out the season with a home game against the currently winless Cleveland Browns. The Patriots have home games against the Buffalo Bills and the Jets, while the Jaguars have the toughest schedule of the three, with road games against the San Francisco 49ers and the Tennessee Titans.