 INDIANAPOLIS — J. T. Barrett looked just fine Saturday. Now it’s up to the College Football Playoff selection committee to decide whether No. 8 Ohio State has done enough to earn a playoff bid. Six days after having surgery on his right knee, Barrett threw two touchdown passes, ran for another and had a crucial fourth-down conversion late in the game to give the Buckeyes a 27-21 victory over previously unbeaten No. 3 Wisconsin in Saturday’s Big Ten championship game. Ohio State (11-2) claimed its first conference crown since its 2014 national championship season. The loss ended the nation’s longest active winning streak at 13 and probably doomed the playoff hopes of the Badgers (12-1). The reason: Barrett’s incredibly speedy recovery. While most athletes need at least two or three weeks to recover from minor knee surgery, Barrett told doctors and coaches he would be O.K. And after watching Barrett in pregame warm-ups with a protective brace around the injured knee, his coaches gave him the starting nod, and he played like the three-time conference quarterback of the year. After running nine yards to convert a third down on the Buckeyes’ second possession of the game, he found a wide open Terry McLaurin for an 84-yard touchdown pass to make the score 7-0. Two possessions later, Barrett threw a short pass to Parris Campbell, who turned a missed tackle into a 57-yard mistake for another score. Then, after a 77-yard run by J. K. Dobbins, Barrett powered in from the 1-yard line to give the Buckeyes a 21-7 lead early in the second quarter. Sure, Barrett made some mistakes and missed some receivers. But the only time he really paid for it came on an ill-advised pass from near his goal line in the first quarter. Barrett was picked off by Andrew Van Ginkel, who returned it nine yards for a Wisconsin score. Otherwise, the Buckeyes were pretty much in control. Wisconsin closed the deficit to 21-10 at the half and 21-13 early in the third quarter. The Badgers’ offense finally broke through early in the fourth by capping a 52-yard drive with a Chris James’s 1-yard touchdown run and a 2-point conversion pass from Alex Hornibrook to Troy Fumagalli after a delay to repair the field. That cut the deficit to 24-21 with 12 minutes 39 seconds to go. Barrett’s fourth-and-1 conversion on the next series set up a short field goal, and the Badgers couldn’t rally on their final two possessions. Barrett finished 12-of-26 passing with 211 yards, two touchdowns, two interceptions, and he rushed 19 times for 60 yards.