 It’s Week 13, which means some of you are preparing for your first fantasy football playoff matchup while others are looking for one more victory to solidify your postseason standing. With that in mind, it’s worth looking at the remaining schedule to see which players may have an extra edge over these next crucial weeks, and which players could disappoint at the worst possible time. Here are a few to make note of. Ben Roethlisberger (PIT) — While he has an unfavorable matchup in Week 14 against the Ravens, a team he barely scored 10 points against in Week 4, he gets them this time at home, where he has traditionally thrived. Then in Weeks 15 and 16, he gets two of the most favorable matchups for fantasy quarterbacks, the Patriots and Texans. Todd Gurley (LAR) — Gurley you have to start every week, as he is capable of top performances no matter the opponent. But Gurley does have a tough road ahead, with all four of his next opponents considered among the top 10 toughest matchups for backs, including the Eagles in Week 14 (12.2 F.P.P.G.; fewest) and the Seahawks, who held Gurley to 3.0 points in Week 5. T.Y. Hilton (IND) — Here’s a player you really shouldn’t start during the playoff weeks. He’s been wildly inconsistent as it is, with three huge performances coupled with eight of under 5 fantasy points. He faces the Jaguars this week, and the Broncos and Ravens in Weeks 15-16, all three among the four toughest fantasy matchups for receivers. Here are some players you do want to have in lineups in Week 13. Philip Rivers (LAC vs. Browns) —  Coming off his best performance of the season, 434 passing yards and three touchdowns at Dallas, Rivers comes home to another favorable fantasy matchup with the Browns, who have yielded the 18.1 fantasy points per game to opposing quarterbacks this season (eighth most). Three of the last four quarterbacks to play the Browns have tallied at least 18.5 fantasy points and two touchdowns. Rivers has also excelled at home of late, with two touchdowns and no interceptions in each of his last three home games. Tyrod Taylor (BUF vs. Patriots) — Not many quarterbacks get written about in fantasy football advice articles just a few weeks after being benched, but it’s been that kind of season. Despite not starting Week 11 against the Chargers, Taylor has put up quality fantasy performances in four of the last six weeks. The Patriots have played better against opposing quarterbacks of late, but have allowed the fifth most F.F.P.G. to the position through 12 weeks. Taylor’s rushing ability, as always, keeps his floor high, even if moving the ball through the air proves difficult. Also Consider: Jared Goff (LAR at Cardinals) Jordan Howard (CHI vs. 49ers) — The Bears’ lead back has alternated good fantasy performances with bad ones in every game since Week 4. Last week was a dud against one of the toughest run defenses, the Eagles’. This week he faces the 49ers, the antithesis of a tough run defense. San Francisco is tied with the Rams for giving up the most F.P.P.G. to opposing backs (22.5). Do not be fooled by the last two weeks, when the 49ers held the line against the Giants’ and Seahawks’ run games. When facing running backs in Howard’s class, the 49ers allowed a total of 65.8 fantasy points to RB1’s in Weeks 7-9. Leonard Fournette (JAC vs. Colts) — He has disappointed of late, falling under 5 fantasy points in two of his last three games. But part of the reason has been a bum ankle. It appears to be in its best shape in a while; Fournette was a full participant in Wednesday’s practice for the first time since Week 10. Look for a return to elite status this week against the Colts, who have yielded the fourth most F.P.P.G. to backs this season. Also Consider: Dion Lewis (NE at Bills) Davante Adams (GB vs. Buccaneers) — Despite the loss of Aaron Rodgers in Week 6, Adams is fantasy’s 10th best receiver through 12 weeks, averaging 10.2 F.P.P.G. He has averaged nearly 14 fantasy points over the last three weeks and now gets the best fantasy matchup for receivers. The Buccaneers have helped four different receivers to score at least 13.5 fantasy points over the past three games, including elite performances by Julio Jones (38.8) and Kenny Stills (24.0). On the season, receivers as a group average 28.6 F.P.P.G. against the Bucs, the most of any N.F.L. team. Robby Anderson (NYJ vs. Chiefs) — His breakout season continued in Week 12 with his best performance of them all: six catches for 142 yards and two touchdowns against the Panthers. He has now produced quality fantasy outings in six straight games and is up against the Chiefs this week, a team that is second only to the Bucs in F.P.P.G. allowed to receivers (26.0). Also Consider: Cooper Kupp (LAR at Cardinals) Jared Cook (OAK vs. Giants) — Week 12 was bizarre in the world of fantasy tight ends, as the Giants, who give up the most fantasy points to tight ends as a team, held Vernon Davis of the Redskins to 0. Cook also failed to produce in a favorable matchup against the Broncos, hauling in one catch for two yards. The Raiders would be wise to exploit this fantastic matchup with the Giants, especially with receivers Amari Cooper (injured) and Michael Crabtree (suspended) not expected to be on the field. Also Consider: Delanie Walker (TEN vs. Texans) LAC vs. Browns; LAR at Cardinals Harrison Butker (KC at Jets); Chris Boswell (PIT at Bengals)