 How much would a pitcher in his prime who was an ace in the playoffs but who has a slightly torn elbow ligament be worth on the open market? Masahiro Tanaka decided not to find out, announcing Friday night that he would forgo the opt-out clause in his contract and remain with the Yankees for the final three years and $67 million on his contract. “It was a simple decision for me as I have truly enjoyed the past four years playing for this organization and for the wonderful fans of New York,” Tanaka, who turned 29 on Wednesday, said in a statement. The return of Tanaka, who had until midnight Saturday to exercise the opt-out, checked another item off General Manager Brian Cashman’s extensive to-do list. Front and center will be the search for a new manager after Joe Girardi’s contract was not renewed by the Yankees at the end of his 10th season. This week, Kevin Reese was promoted from the pro scouting director to the senior director of player development, replacing Gary Denbo, who took a similar position with the Miami Marlins. The third-base coach, Joe Espada, left to become the bench coach for the Houston Astros. Tanaka’s decision spared the Yankees from having to make a choice between extending his contract despite an injury risk or risk losing him on the open market. In the past, two other Yankees — Alex Rodriguez and C. C. Sabathia — have used opt-out clauses to extract lucrative, lengthy extensions from the team, the kind of deals the Yankees have shied away from in the last three years. But what most likely prevented Tanaka from doing the same was the state of his right elbow. Tanaka has been pitching with a small ligament tear in the elbow since at least July 2014 — and he has missed time with arm injuries in each of his seasons with the Yankees. He spent 10 days on the disabled list in August with what was described as shoulder fatigue. Still, Tanaka has also shown signs of dominance in each season. This season, though, he was especially erratic, finishing at 13-12 with a 4.74 earned run average, by far the worst of his four seasons with the Yankees. In a late September start at Toronto, he surrendered a career-high-tying eight runs, including three homers, which ran his total to 35 for the season — 10 more than he had ever given up in his professional career, which began in Japan when he was 18. But the poor performance proved to be a turning point for Tanaka. In his final start of the regular season, at home against the Blue Jays, Tanaka carried a perfect game for four and two-thirds innings and struck out a career-high 15 batters. He was just as good in the playoffs, allowing only two runs in 20 innings in three starts against the Cleveland Indians and the Houston Astros. In the postseason, he gave up 10 hits — only one for extra bases — and struck out 18 while walking three.