 GANGNEUNG, South Korea — The Winter Olympics close on Sunday, and Russia, with its sporting reputation battered by systematic doping and its competitive ranks thinned by banned athletes, has yet to win a gold medal. That is widely expected to change by Friday at the latest, when the Russian figure skaters and training partners — Alina Zagitova, 15, and Evgenia Medvedeva, 18 — will be consensus choices to win gold and silver in the women’s competition. ——- Follow our live coverage of the women’s figure skating free skate program here. ——- Nominally, Russia was barred from these Games after operating a doping scheme at the 2014 Winter Games in Sochi, Russia. But 169 individual athletes were permitted to compete as neutrals as “Olympic Athletes from Russia.” That includes Zagitova, the recently crowned European champion who won Wednesday’s short program with a world-record 82.92 points. Only minutes earlier, Medvedeva, a two-time world champion who broke a bone in her right foot last fall, had established a world record of 81.61 points. They train with the same coach in Moscow and appear to be competing in a private contest to determine which will become Olympic champion. Off the ice, the two are friends. During competitions, though, Medvedeva said she considered the rivalry “a little war.” Zagitova said, “It’s not bad or negative like a malicious feeling of rivalry, but it is there.” Kaetlyn Osmond of Canada stands third with 78.87 points. The American women, on the other hand, gave their worst collective performance since the short program was introduced to the Olympics in 1976. Mirai Nagasu (ninth) fell on her triple axel. Karen Chen (10th) put her hand to the ice while attempting her opening combination jump, while Bradie Tennell (11th) took a spill on her opening combination. The Russians were superior. Zagitova performed as the Black Swan and narrowly won the short program with a more difficult combination jump than Medvedeva performed. Medvedeva’s routine, skated to a Chopin nocturne, told the story of a spirit leaving and then returning to the body. The performance came complete with the sound of a heartbeat on the public address system and a woman’s voice that pleaded, “Come back.” (This was hardly the most discussed musical choice of the day. Ivett Toth of Hungary stirred social media with AC/DC’s “Back in Black” in the first Olympics in which skaters can perform to music with lyrics. And Giada Russo of Italy competed to the score from the orgy scene in Stanley Kubrick’s “Eyes Wide Shut.”) On Wednesday, both Medvedeva and Zagitova completed all four of their jumps in the second half of their routines, when skaters are rewarded with a 10 percent bonus for each jump as their legs begin to tire. That strategy could be decisive in Friday’s four-minute free skate. Medvedeva often jumps with an arm extended above her head, adding difficulty to the maneuver, and attempts all but one of her jumps in the second half of her long program. Zagitova attempts all of her jumps in the second half. The tactic has been both applauded for its cleverness and criticized for what some perceive as a kind of vacancy in the first half of the Russian routines, which are effectively limited to spins and choreography. “I think it’s a great strategy because it’s allowable within the rules,” said Tom Zakrajsek, who coaches Nagasu. “If you’re trying to win, you should go for every single point. Those extra one or two points can make a difference.” The strategy, known as back-end loading, requires tremendous endurance, which the Russians gain by doing one triple jump after another in rapid succession during practice. “Your heart rate maximizes at 115; you’ve got lactic acid in your muscles pretty much from that point on,” Zakrajsek said. “And to jump and jump well and cleanly when you’re fatigued is wicked hard.” Aesthetically, however, Paul Wylie, the 1992 Olympic silver medalist from the United States, expressed concern that back-end loading tends to sap the early speed of a routine as skaters conserve energy for a vigorous finish. “If you’re putting absolutely every single jumping pass in the last part of the program, you aren’t able to skate with any speed into it,” Wylie said. “To me, skating skills is about going fast. But I’m not saying it’s not a shrewd thing to do. It’s absolutely the smartest thing to do.” Until Medvedeva broke a bone in her foot last fall, she was considered an overwhelming favorite to win the Olympics. But she missed valuable training time and two competitions. Then she lost last month to Zagitova at the European championships. And now Medvedeva’s chance to win the Olympics has been threatened by her own training partner. There was a hint of wistfulness in Medvedeva’s voice on Wednesday as she spoke about training with Zagitova and other younger skaters in a group coached by Eteri Tutberidze in Moscow. When she sees younger skaters doing more difficult maneuvers, Medvedeva said: “You just feel inside so strange. You are older, and you must be stronger than them. It really forces you.” The daughter of a former elite hockey player, Zagitova could become the second youngest women’s Olympic skating champion. Tara Lipinski of the United States was younger by several weeks when she won gold, also at 15, at the 1998 Winter Olympics. At about age 12, though, Zagitova’s career seemed to end before it had truly begun. She entered a youth event with a broken arm and then broke a leg during the competition. Even before that, Tutberidze wanted her to leave the training group, according to Zagitova. “I didn’t work hard enough,” she said. “I didn’t understand the seriousness of it all.” She told Tutberidze that she was quitting, but the coach said, “Let’s give it another try.” It gave Zagitova butterflies in her stomach and made her realize how much she still loved skating, she said. “If it wasn’t for that moment, maybe I wouldn’t be here at the Olympic Games,” Zagitova said. Not just at the Olympics, but a favorite to win a gold medal.