 Few people expected the Oklahoma City Thunder to beat the Houston Rockets on Saturday. The Rockets have the best record in the West. The Thunder had lost four of their last five games. It was a slide that could have pushed Oklahoma City’s so-called superteam out of the playoffs entirely. And now, even after the Thunder’s 108-102 victory in Houston, that threat is still real. On Sunday afternoon, only three teams in the West had clinched a playoff spot. By defeating the Los Angeles Lakers in the evening, the Utah Jazz made it four. But, with only three days left in the regular season, the New Orleans Pelicans, San Antonio Spurs, Thunder and Minnesota Timberwolves have not stamped their playoff passports. The ninth-place Nuggets, who have won five games straight, are still looking to replace one unlucky loser, and all five teams are within a single game of one another. Below is a schedule of each team’s remaining games and a prediction of how each team will perform in what will be one of the wildest weeks in the West in recent memory. • Monday, at Los Angeles Clippers The Pelicans are a streaky team. Their playoff position seemed to be in jeopardy when they lost four straight starting in late March, but they have since won three games in a row, including a huge victory in Golden State on Saturday. It was the first time the Pelicans have beaten the Warriors in the last three seasons. In their contest with the Clippers on Monday, they face a team that has just been eliminated from the last-second race for a spot in the playoffs. Los Angeles has lost four of its last five games, and is likely to yield to a determined New Orleans squad playing strong basketball. • Wednesday, vs. San Antonio The Pelicans’ final game of the season is far more interesting, one of two must-watch games in the West on Wednesday. New Orleans has beaten the Spurs twice this season, but lost the most recent game last month when Anthony Davis fouled out after 36 minutes of play. The Spurs defend Davis relatively well, and are a more disciplined team than New Orleans. But the Pelicans are younger and Davis is a superstar. It’s going to be close. Prediction: Pelicans go 2-0, finish at 48-34 and clinch the 5th seed. • Monday, vs. Sacramento What a snooze! Sacramento is a bad team, and Gregg Popovich is a good coach. The Kings haven’t beaten the Spurs this season. They also didn’t beat them last season. Or the season before that. • Wednesday, at New Orleans Beginning in February, the Spurs lost 11 of 14 games, causing them to drop through the standings so fast that they left a Manu-shaped hole behind them. But San Antonio has righted the ship with the help of LaMarcus Aldridge, who has averaged 29 points (six more than usual) in the team’s last 13 games, during which the Spurs have gone 9-4. Aldridge has struggled against the Pelicans. In their first contest this season, he had only 16 points and four rebounds. In the second, he twisted his ankle early and had to leave the game. He played better in their game last month, but he has trouble against Davis (and, before he got injured, DeMarcus Cousins). He will have to do a better job Wednesday or these Spurs (a team constructed from glue, Popsicle sticks and Tony Parker’s gossip magazine clippings) will be in trouble. Prediction: Spurs go 1-1, finish the season at 47-35, fall to seventh. • Monday, at Miami The Rockets, who average more points per game than anyone in the league, save the Warriors, are surprisingly bad at scoring in the fourth quarter, often because they have already won their games by then. But the Thunder’s defense on Saturday was still a minor revelation. Russell Westbrook, who is sometimes derided for his defense, did particularly heroic work covering James Harden. Miami is not an easy team to beat at home. The Heat, who have secured a playoff spot but are still jockeying for position within the Eastern Conference, are 25-14 in Miami. They played the Thunder close in Oklahoma City last month, before eventually capitulating, 105-99. In fact, many of the Thunder’s most impressive wins (including two against the Warriors) have come, not when they have outgunned an opponent but when they have held other teams to fewer points than usual. They should commit themselves to defense anew on Monday. • Wednesday, vs. Memphis If you have not followed the Thunder all season, you’ve missed a disappointing run for a team that includes the reigning M.V.P. in Westbrook, and the All-Stars Paul George and Carmelo Anthony. The three veterans have trouble playing as a unit on offense, and their styles often clash. Melo, in particular, has been especially bad recently. But the Grizzlies have been doing their best to be the worst team in the league throughout the latter part of the season. They will not provide much of a contest. Prediction: Thunder go 2-0, with a narrow win in Miami. Finish the season at 48-34, clinch the sixth seed. (The Pelicans own the tiebreaker over the Thunder because they won two of the teams’ three matchups this season.) • Monday, vs. Memphis Jimmy Butler hurt his knee in late February and some fans were ready to call it for the T-Wolves’ season. Minnesota has mostly struggled since but has occasionally held its own against tough opponents, including the Warriors and Washington Wizards early last month. But the team has since gone 6-5, with some embarrassing losses, including one to the Grizzlies. Butler returned Friday, looking remarkably solid after his long hiatus. He scored 18 points in just 23 minutes of play against the Lakers. With a game against Denver on Wednesday, the Timberwolves cannot afford to let Memphis beat them again. • Wednesday, vs. Denver Timberwolves forward Taj Gibson described Butler as the “one piece” who helps the team fit together after Friday’s victory over the Lakers. It’s true. Butler is an all-star and veteran on a team full of young players who narrowly lost to Denver last week. Butler could put the Timberwolves over the top against the Nuggets, who they beat in Denver earlier this season. But the Nuggets have won five straight; if they are fighting for a playoff berth in the last game of the season, they will not be easy to beat. And if Denver is no longer in contention by then, that would mean the Timberwolves are in. The Nuggets are bound to want to give the team that took their spot a loss to end the regular season. Prediction: Timberwolves go 2-0, finish the season at 47-35, clinch the eighth seed. • Monday, vs. Portland The Nuggets’ travel schedule has been among the most difficult in the league, according to ESPN’s Baxter Holmes. In their second-to-last game they play the Blazers at home. Portland is a strong team, but it has struggled mightily on this road trip, losing every game in a Texas three-step last week before getting a day of rest on Sunday. The Blazers are only a game up on the Jazz, so they have something to lose in their last two games. But Denver has beaten them two out of three times this season (including a blowout in December when Damian Lillard was injured). On Monday, with their season on the line, the Nuggets are likely to make it three of four. • Wednesday, at Minnesota And then they have to hop on a plane and fly to Minnesota. After winning six straight, the Nuggets will be fired up but exhausted. The T-Wolves beat them twice this season, lost to them last week and have Butler back now. This will, in all likelihood, be the game that decides each team’s season, and it’s a tossup. But at full strength, the Timberwolves are a better team than the Nuggets, and they are well coached. They’ll win a thriller at home. Prediction: Nuggets go 1-1, lose their final game of the season and, in a small tragedy, miss the playoffs. They finish 46-36.