 CHICAGO — It took nearly three decades for the Los Angeles Dodgers to return to the World Series. In all that time, Hollywood’s team could never find the right leading man. In their search for a leadoff hitter, they poached from old rivals, grabbing Willie Randolph from the Yankees and Brett Butler from the Giants. They traded a future Hall of Famer, Pedro Martinez, to get Delino DeShields. They gave the role to their future manager, Dave Roberts, and to the career stolen base leader, Rickey Henderson. They tried a homegrown speedster, Dee Gordon, and a homegrown slugger, Joc Pederson. Last fall, they used four leadoff hitters in six games while losing the National League Championship Series to the Chicago Cubs. Yet on Thursday, before the Dodgers trounced the Cubs, 11-1, to clinch the pennant in Game 5 of this N.L.C.S., there was no doubt who would lead the way: Chris Taylor. He drew a nine-pitch walk to start the game, fueled other rallies with hits and now will torment the Yankees or the Astros in the Dodgers’ first trip to the World Series since 1988. Taylor had six hits, including two homers, in the N.L.C.S. and was named a co-Most Valuable Player along with third baseman Justin Turner. All postseason, the Dodgers have used only Taylor to lead off. A year ago, he wasa stirrups-wearing afterthought who gained a slice of infamy last spring in El Paso, Tex., for beaning the mascot, Chico the Chihuahua, with a wild throw from shortstop. On Thursday Roberts summed up the reputation Taylor brought to spring training this season: “a fringy, 4-A player” who had gambled on a swing change to save his career. “It was actually the first day of full-squad workouts,” Roberts said, recalling the moment Taylor’s status changed. “He was on the back field. So as I was kind of making my way around the different hitting groups, you see Chris and the way the ball’s coming off, and he completely changed his swing mechanics. “There is that angle that he used to have; he really had a loop in his swing and really couldn’t get the velocity. That kind of changed, and the way he’s using his entire body, the ball was just coming off a lot more hot. I remember talking to Andrew at that point, saying, ‘This guy’s a real player right now.’” Andrew Friedman, the Dodgers’ president of baseball operations, acquired Taylor from the Seattle Mariners in a June 2016 trade for a minor league pitcher, Zach Lee. Taylor had hit .240 with no homers in 86 games for the Mariners, and Friedman could not have imagined his production this season: a .288 average with 21 homers and 17 steals while starting at five positions: second base, shortstop, third base, left field and center field. Taylor also homered in Games 1 and 3 of the N.L.C.S. Friedman said the Dodgers liked Taylor’s athleticism, speed and middle-infield defense. They appreciated his disciplined plate approach and ability to make contact. One factor was missing, though, and it was a big one. “We felt like his offensive upside needed to be adjusted up,” Friedman said. “What that meant, we weren’t sure.” Robert Van Scoyoc had an idea. Van Scoyoc, a hitting instructor in Southern California who consults for the Dodgers, had first noticed Taylor in Detroit in 2014, when Taylor was a rookie for the Mariners. Van Scoyoc was there to meet with another player, J. D. Martinez, whose swing he had helped transform, turning Martinez into a slugging force. He liked several aspects of Taylor’s game, but doubted his long-term outlook because of a weak swing. “It was a push-your-hands-inside-the-ball type of swing,” Van Scoyoc said. “He swung in a really short zone and there was no leverage in the air. It was punch the ball and hit low line-drives to the opposite field.” By last October, Taylor was ready to make a change. He met Van Scoyoc at the Dodgers’ complex in Arizona during “Stay Hot,” a program designed to keep extra players ready if the team needs to summon them during the playoffs. Van Scoyoc was also working with lower-level prospects in the instructional league, and Taylor patiently waited for him after the others had left. “It wasn’t just that he had the aptitude; it was more that he had the intangibles,” said Van Scoyoc, who introduced various changes to create more rhythm and bat speed. “He was relentless in the way he wanted to work.” Taylor said he had no expectations when he decided to revamp his swing and never expected to see results so quickly. But he knew he had gotten too comfortable as an ordinary hitter. “It’s definitely scary any time you make a change like that,” Taylor said on Thursday. “You get out of your comfort zone. There’s always a risk; this game has a very short leash.” The greater risk, though, might have been to do nothing and remain, essentially, the definition of a replacement-level player: easily obtainable from the minors in a pinch, but not a consistent difference maker. To be an everyday player, he needed something new. “It’s really a big leap of faith,” Roberts said. “But I think now with a lot of the information and exit velocity and how people are valued as offensive players, just seeing a guy that can slap the ball to right field and can catch it, those players aren’t as valuable.” “Chris can do that with his two-strike approach, but also he can hit the ball out of the ballpark and play all over the field. He just made himself a way more valuable player.” Before, Van Scoyoc said, Taylor held his bat straight up. By moving the barrel — like Chipper Jones or Robinson Cano — and adding a leg kick, Taylor could get more from the sophisticated plate approach he already had, Van Scoyoc believed. “Now when he gets his swing off and makes a good decision, it can deliver an impactful blow,” he said. “His best result before was a medium line drive. Now, his best result is a home run.” Taylor, who lives in Virginia Beach, flew to California multiple times last winter to visit Van Scoyoc and work on the changes. He still started this season at Class AAA Oklahoma City, but was promoted April 19 and doubled twice. He homered in his second game, singled twice in his third and has been indispensable ever since. “For him to go out and already be a major leaguer and then do a complete swing reconstruction sounds crazy, but that’s kind of what I did,” said Turner, whose swing changes jolted a career that had sputtered with the Mets. “It’s been unbelievable hitting behind him and watching him take off and really become an electrifying player for this organization and a table setter.” The Dodgers never did call Taylor to their roster last October, and he rooted them on from home as they lost the N.L.C.S. at Wrigley Field. Now he is essential as they strive for an elusive championship.