 ANN ARBOR, Mich. — Dwayne Haskins replaced the injured quarterback J.T. Barrett in the third quarter and led No. 8 Ohio State from behind to beat Michigan, 31-20, on Saturday in Ann Arbor for the Buckeyes’ sixth consecutive win in their rivalry. The Buckeyes (10-2, 8-1 Big Ten) will face No. 5 Wisconsin in the Big Ten championship game next weekend, with hopes of making the College Football Playoff. Barrett said he would play. The Wolverines (8-4, 5-4) have lost 13 of their last 14 meetings with Ohio State, including three straight under Coach Jim Harbaugh. Barrett said his knee had twisted when an unidentified male tried to squeeze by him before the game, making contact with his leg and aggravating a problem he had been playing through. It did not keep him from starting, but after a run in the third quarter he grabbed his right knee as he lay on the field. He limped off the field and toward the locker room. Barrett was three of eight for 30 yards with a touchdown and ran 15 times for 67 yards and another score. He went out with Michigan leading, 20-14, in the third. Ohio State Coach Urban Meyer was livid after the game about Barrett’s injury and called for an investigation. “Too many people on the sideline,” Meyer said. “I’m so angry right now.” Barrett also lamented how many people Michigan had allowed around the Buckeyes’ bench before the game, including the person who made contact with him. “I remember he was wearing something gray, and he continued to walk,” Barrett said. “He got a little nervous.” Michigan had to start quarterback John O’Korn because Brandon Peters was not cleared to play after sustaining a concussion and Wilton Speight was still out with cracked vertebrae. A fifth-year senior, O’Korn completed fewer than half of his passes, and he was picked off with about two minutes left and the Buckeyes ahead, 24-20. Mike Weber sealed it for Ohio State with a 25-yard touchdown run with 1 minute 44 seconds left. Haskins, a redshirt freshman, took full advantage of his chance to play. He was six of seven for 94 yards and had a 22-yard run that set up J.K. Dobbins’s 1-yard touchdown, which gave Ohio State a 21-20 lead late in the third quarter.