 MADISON, Wis. — The governing body for USA Hockey may be based in Colorado Springs, but its soul resides here, where the pillars of University of Wisconsin hockey energized the Olympic and Paralympic movements. And now, with the absence of N.H.L. players echoing the era when college players populated the American roster, the Badgers will have an outsize influence in the 2018 Winter Games in South Korea. In July, one former Wisconsin hockey player and United States Olympian called another, asking if he would coach the American men’s team in Pyeongchang. Tony Granato, willing to leave his post as Wisconsin’s coach for that stretch, accepted the offer from USA Hockey executive Jim Johannson without hesitation. The United States roster, which for the first time since 1994 will not comprise N.H.L. players, is still being deliberated, with the announcement expected on Jan. 1. When Granato stood behind a lectern here in early November, at a dinner benefiting the foundation of the late Wisconsin and American sled hockey coach Jeff Sauer, he gestured toward a slight, bespectacled man sitting at a nearby table. It was Mark Johnson, who is the son of the former Wisconsin and Olympic coach Bob Johnson and who scored twice in the Americans’ Miracle on Ice upset of Russia in the 1980 Olympics. The women’s coach at Wisconsin, Mark Johnson, now 60, is still the Badgers’ career goal-scorer. “You still got anything left in the tank?” Granato asked him. “Power play only,” Johnson quipped. Every United States men’s Olympic team since 1976, when Bob Johnson took three of his Wisconsin players to Innsbruck, Austria, has featured at least one Badger, a streak that should continue for this cycle. The women’s squad is loaded with Badgers, while the teachings of Sauer, who died in February from pancreatic cancer at age 73, reverberate every time the sled team takes the ice. Granato played for Sauer, who played for Johnson (at Colorado College), who won three national titles at Wisconsin. Granato considers himself a humble caretaker of the Wisconsin connection with Olympic hockey, displayed on plaques that line the corridor outside the Badgers’ locker room at the Kohl Center. “Our experiences in life have come because of what USA Hockey has given us,” said Granato, who played with Johannson on the 1988 team in Calgary and was an assistant coach in 2014 in Sochi. “Once you wear the U.S. sweater, any time they want you to do anything, you’d love to be a part of it.” That charge has fortified a tradition dating back more than four decades. Before USA Hockey had its headquarters on Bob Johnson Drive in Colorado Springs, Bob Johnson’s home was the center of the organization — or at least an important component of it. He ran the 1976 Olympic team out of the garage, which teemed with boxes of sweatsuits and equipment. When Mark was a high school senior, he cut him from the roster at the dinner table one Sunday. By then, Bob Johnson, who arrived in 1966, had transformed the hockey culture here. Meshing his unceasing enthusiasm with the innovative tactics he gleaned from scouting European teams, the man known as Badger Bob turned Wisconsin hockey into a national institution, a source of civic pride and the hub of weekend social activity, and turned Madison into a destination. He marketed the sport by speaking at local clubs, challenging people to come to one game, just one game, but also through unorthodox methods, like bringing his goalie to the West Towne Mall and having him demonstrate how he took his gear on and off. As the football and basketball programs flailed in the 1970s and 1980s, Wisconsin hockey soared in popularity. For years, demand at the old Dane County Coliseum, now the Alliant Energy Center, was so steep that season tickets were available for Fridays or Saturdays, but not both. For those who could not attend, games were aired on tape delay at 10:30 p.m. on public-access television, binding generations of fans. “We didn’t have the N.H.L.,” said the former N.H.L. defenseman Barry Richter, a Madison native who played for Sauer at Wisconsin. “We had the Badgers.” As a youngster, Richter also played and worked for  Bob Suter, a teammate of Mark Johnson’s in 1980. Suter’s family, which also included his brother Gary, a 17-season N.H.L veteran, was hockey royalty here. Suter, who died in 2014, is the father of Minnesota Wild defenseman Ryan Suter (also a fellow Badger and Olympian). He owned a sporting goods store on the east side of town and kept his gold medal there on a shelf. The coliseum also hosted games against Soviet teams, both real — such as Spartak, which visited in the 1976-77 season — and pretend. On Sunday afternoons, Mark Johnson said, his father would divide players for informal scrimmages known as Russian Games, where one team would wear jerseys of legends like Valeri Kharlamov or Vladimir Petrov. “This is the environment I grew up in,” Mark Johnson said, adding, “It’s just one of those things that was weaved into our mind-set and our bodies and the experiences that we have. Your country calls, and you say, ‘When do I need to be there?’ and ‘How am I getting there?’ I’ve been able to sell that tradition to my players.” When he coached the Wisconsin women’s team to a national championship in 2007 in Lake Placid, N.Y., where he had won gold 27 years earlier, Mark Johnson asked the buses to stop at the Olympic torch for a team photo. He reflects often on the wisdom of his father, who died of brain cancer in 1991 and who always thought it was a great day for hockey. But if Bob Johnson promoted the sport, his protégé Sauer embodied the role of ambassador. A longtime champion of disabled hockey, Sauer was always thinking of the next way to make life easier for those who needed it. The Coach Sauer Foundation, established after his death, will provide equipment or financial assistance to disabled or able-bodied players. Friends noted how Sauer was even busier after leaving Wisconsin, in 2002, than when he coached there. His input during the renovation process of Madison Ice Arena helped it become not only compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act but one of the premier venues for disabled hockey. He led American deaf and sled teams to international titles, including the gold medal at the 2014 Paralympics. Before Sauer died, his longtime friend Bill Brophy said, he had been planning last April to go right from the sled hockey world championships in South Korea to the deaf hockey world championships outside Buffalo. “I said, ‘You’re 72 years old, that’ll be tough to do if you’re 30 years old,’” Brophy said. “But that’s what he was going to do. He was committed to both teams and both causes.” Like Johnson, Sauer bucked the stereotype of hockey coach as taskmaster. He motivated his players not by yelling or through fear but with patience and positive reinforcement. Richter compared him to a guardrail, allowing players to express their personalities while always steering them toward becoming the best versions of themselves. In team photographs, Sauer would always stand in the back, or to the side, because he felt players deserved to be front and center. “He looked at me and said, ‘Well, you’re a hockey player, you’re not somebody who’s disabled,’” said Josh Pauls, the captain of the national team. “He looked at your ability.” For the sled players, Sauer’s impact registers whenever they put on their helmets, affixed with stickers memorializing him, or enter their dressing room, where a poster of him sitting on a net and reads Team First, hangs on a wall. Sauer’s voice rings inside goalie Steve Cash’s head, admonishing players to keep pushing or to move their feet — which, since many do not have legs, amused them. Sauer won two national championships at Wisconsin but, friends said, neither compared to the thrill of taking gold in Sochi. “The culture that he created, it’ll be with this team forever,” said Guy Gosselin, who succeeded Sauer as the sled hockey coach. “The respect for the game, the players being humble, being thankful — we’ll never forget that. He was teaching life skills from day one.” That approach resonated with Granato, who sees Sauer’s initials on the wall every time he walks into his office. It reminds him of what he learned from Sauer, and the coach — and person — he is striving to be. Had the N.H.L. chosen to participate in the Pyeongchang Games, Granato, in his second season at Wisconsin, probably would not be coaching the Olympic team. But Johannson pursued him, he said, because of Granato’s ability to coax the best work habits out of his players, who, in February, will converge from the minor leagues, Europe and the N.C.A.A. with only a few days to coalesce. There was also another reason, Johannson said. He knew that Granato could help secure a particular assistant coach that Johannson wanted on the bench: the Hall of Fame defenseman Chris Chelios, a four-time Olympian who went to college at, well, you know.