 CHICAGO — After earning their first trip to the World Series in 29 years on Thursday night with a dismantling of the Chicago Cubs, the Los Angeles Dodgers celebrated modestly until they headed off the field. And the real merriment could not begin until Enrique Hernandez, a utility player who had just blasted three home runs in the Dodgers’ 11-1 victory at Wrigley Field, led the rallying cry. So with Clayton Kershaw by his side, the always-animated Hernandez announced the Dodgers’ World Series arrival with a few expletives, proclaimed they had four more wins to go to claim a championship, and started the joyful spraying of beer and Champagne. The Dodgers have made it to the Series thanks to deep-pocketed owners, a robust front office, a respected manager and a talented roster. They won a major-league-best 104 games in the regular season, and seven of eight playoff games to date with major contributions from Kershaw, the best pitcher of his generation; third baseman Justin Turner, one of the National League’s best hitters; and Kenley Jansen, perhaps the best closer in the sport. But the Dodgers are also defined by their versatile role players — people like Hernandez, who, despite his part-time role, has been a major contributor to the team’s heart and soul and sense of humor. “It’s very fitting for this team, for the way it has played, that it’s a different guy every day,” Dodgers General Manager Farhan Zaidi said. “So why not have it be a guy that has been platooning and not starting every game that hit three homers?” Hernandez, 26, hit a measly .215 in the 2017 regular season, along with a career-high 11 home runs. For his career, he is just a .236 hitter. But his value comes from his athleticism and ability to plug the holes in the lineup that will inevitably arise over the course of a marathon baseball season. This year alone, Hernandez has played all three outfield spots, plus every infield spot, except catcher — and adequately, too. He has dressed in a banana suit during games to bring levity to his teammates. And despite his overall batting average this season, he did hit .270 with 10 home runs against left-handers, making him particularly useful when the Dodgers want to load up with right-handed batters. The Dodgers acquired Hernandez in a seven-player deal with the Miami Marlins in December 2014 that was headlined by Dee Gordon, who had been an All-Star second baseman with the Dodgers. Fast forward three years and the deal has netted numerous dividends for the Dodgers. Catcher Austin Barnes, who was part of the trade, started most of the Dodgers’ games this postseason, and there is Hernandez, who had previously shown an ability to hit in the postseason, but nothing like what he came up with on Thursday, in Game 5 of the National League Championship Series. In hitting three home runs in a postseason game, Hernandez joined a distinguished list of 10 players that includes Jose Altuve, Albert Pujols, Reggie Jackson and Babe Ruth, who did it twice. Adam Kennedy of the Anaheim Angels achieved the feat in Game 5 of the A.L.C.S. in 2002, the last time a Southern California team reached and won the World Series. “He’s a guy with a ton of talent,” Zaidi said of Hernandez. “He’s a baseball player first and comedian second, so hopefully that will be the order going forward.” During a television interview after Thursday’s onslaught, Hernandez said he joked before the game that he would forgo trying to simply make contact and try to hit home runs. He saw two pitches combined in his first two at-bats on Thursday and produced a solo home run and a grand slam. He added a two-run homer in the ninth inning. “I hit more homers in the game than I did in B.P.,” Hernandez said, referring to pregame batting practice. Hernandez said he remembered little in the moments right after the home runs because of the emotions coursing through him. But he said his top priority after the game was to hug his father, who went through a bout with cancer last year and was in attendance on Thursday night. “I didn’t really care about anything else,” he said. “If it wasn’t for him, I wouldn’t be here. He sacrificed a lot throughout my life for me to be here right now.” During the game, Hernandez said, he also thought of his paternal grandfather, who passed away last month, and his native island, Puerto Rico, which was recently devastated by Hurricane Maria. He said the hurricane hit the day after he attended his grandfather’s funeral on the island. “People back home are going through some really bad times,” said Hernandez, who played for Puerto Rico in the World Baseball Classic in March. “And for me to be able to do this on a stage like this and give the people back home something to smile about for at least a little bit is something that I truly can’t put into words and it means the world to me.” Hernandez has raised money for relief efforts on the island by selling T-shirts and setting up an online campaign started with his fiancée last month. Before the game, the amount pledged was around $70,000. But after the best game of Hernandez’s career, it soared above the $100,000 goal.