 ORLANDO, Fla. — Major League Baseball’s annual general managers’ meetings overlapped with the owners’ quarterly meetings this week, turning the Waldorf Astoria hotel here into a hive of baseball bigwigs. At any moment, owners and executives from the top teams in the game can be seen holding court in the lobby. But none of them has drawn more attention than a rookie with one of the lowliest clubs: Derek Jeter, the new chief executive and part owner of the Miami Marlins. About 40 reporters huddled around Jeter as he spoke on Wednesday morning, partly because of who he is — a longtime Yankees great and a likely Hall of Famer — and partly because he can control the fate of a current superstar. “It’s a little strange,” Jeter said as he began a news conference outside the hotel. “I’ve tried very hard in my career to stay out of the owner’s office.” As a Yankee, Jeter reached the playoffs 16 times and won five World Series rings. He now oversees the day-to-day operations of a franchise that endured numerous roster sell-offs under the previous owner, Jeffrey Loria; that has sat near the bottom of M.L.B. in attendance; that has an estimated $400 million in debt; and that has not reached the playoffs since 2003, when the Marlins beat Jeter’s Yankees in the World Series. To rebuild and improve their financial footing, the Marlins are dangling some of their best players as trade bait, including the slugger Giancarlo Stanton, who is a leading contender to win the National League’s Most Valuable Player Award on Thursday after hitting 59 home runs and driving in 132 runs this season. The complicating factors: Stanton has a full no-trade clause and will be entering the fourth year of a record 13-year, $325-million contract extension awarded to him by Loria. “It’s an organization that’s been losing money for quite some time, so we have to turn that around,” Jeter said. “How we do that, it’s not clear.” He avoided giving definitive answers about Stanton’s fate. Had he called Stanton, the face of the franchise, to talk about his situation? “I haven’t,” Jeter said. Should he? “When the time is right, we’ll speak,” Jeter said. “I don’t know how often the owner calls and talks to all the players on the team and shares his visions.” Jeter said that, as a player, he had a close relationship with the Yankees’ owners, including Hal Steinbrenner, who is in charge now. “He didn’t share his vision every single off-season,” Jeter said. Jeter said that Michael Hill, the Marlins’ president of baseball operations, had been in contact with Stanton. “That’s Michael’s job,” Jeter said. “It’s not like it’s radio silence.” Jeter insisted the Marlins were willing to listen to trade offers for any player. He said he understood that there was more speculation about Stanton, in part because Stanton had said late in the season that he was tired of losing and that he did not want to be part of a rebuilding effort. “It’s easy to point the finger at him because he makes the most money,” Jeter said, “but that doesn’t necessarily mean that’s the move that’s going to be made.” Jeter and Bruce Sherman, a billionaire based in Florida who is the principal owner, led a group that bought the Marlins for nearly $1.2 billion last month. “I always said this is something I wanted to do and pursue after I’d retired,” Jeter said. “Any time, when you have dreams and aspirations of being a major league player, when you get there, it’s overwhelming and hard to believe sometimes. That’s the case here as well.” Since taking over the team, Jeter said, he has spent most of his time working on the business side than the baseball aspects. Jeter said the team needed to restore its fractured relationships with sponsors and fans. But he added that he was encouraged by the capacity crowds at Marlins Park when it hosted some World Baseball Classic games in March. “In Miami, due to Latin America, there’s a lot of baseball fans,” he said, adding later: “So there is support for baseball there. It’s just getting the fans back.” After so much instability, Jeter said he wanted the Marlins to be a “sustainable” franchise and added that he hated the word “rebuild.” He said it was unacceptable that the Marlins had not reached the playoffs since 2003. “We will build something,” he said. “It will take time. It’ll take some patience. Look, I’m learning the franchise as well, learning the players, and the players in the minor league system.” Jeter said he had been so busy since starting his new job that he had spent only two days in Tampa, his longtime home. He now has a place to live in Miami. “Since he’s come on, we’ve had so much work to do that you sort of get lost in the work,” Hill said. Jeter said he had been surprised that rival owners and executives had offered to help him adjust to his new role. There is no playbook on how to transition from star player to celebrity owner, but Jeter has appreciated the advice from across the sport. “They’ve all been pretty universal that it’s going to take time,” he said. “You learn as you go.”