 MELBOURNE, Australia — On the eve of the Australian Open two weeks ago, Novak Djokovic, the president of the ATP player council, addressed more than 100 players to outline his vision for a better future for his constituents. His ideas reportedly included a new association to represent players’ interests in a more forceful, independent capacity that could recoup a greater share of profits from tournaments. After the closed-door meeting dispersed, the word that echoed out from the room was “unionization,” and a possible restructuring of the ATP World Tour, which currently represents both men’s players and tournaments. As the tournament got underway, players were asked for their thoughts on a union, and the idea resonated among men and women alike. Many players support trying to bring tennis more in line with other sports in terms of the percentage of revenue that goes to the athletes. But among the WTA players, there were concerns that they would not be included in the discussions and that they currently had no leader like Djokovic fighting as passionately for their causes. Some suggested a joint union would be a solution in an era where the biggest events are combined. The veteran player Mirjana Lucic-Baroni said she had been agitating for a union since joining the tour in the late 1990s. “I’ve been calling for this for 20 years now and it doesn’t happen,” she said. “The good thing and the problem is that it takes Djokovic to do that. And who’s going to do that for us? You can be as loud and try as much as you want, but the change is not going to happen unless everyone sits down and does it.” If “everyone” means including players from the WTA and ATP tours, it will take unprecedented cooperation and a compromise in leadership styles. Djokovic was asked if he would join with the women, but generally declined to answer questions about the players meeting and possible unionization. The men have been louder about complaints this decade and they hold several all-hands-on-deck meetings throughout the season for players to air ideas and grievances. WTA players tend to angle for change behind the scenes, as they did during their fight for equal prize money at Grand Slam tournaments in the mid-2000s, and do not meet en masse regularly like the men do. Pam Shriver, who served as president of the Women’s Tennis Association from 1991 to 1994, when it functioned as a players’ organization separate from the tour, said Djokovic and players on the men’s tour would be making a mistake by trying to battle for more without the other half of the tennis population. “The most powerful potential union, or new entity, would be one that was both men and women,” Shriver said. “In this day and age, moving forward, it would not be well thought of to split it up, because you want to go in with the most clout and power, and in this sport that would be together.” Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova, a former member of the WTA player council, said she believed many improvements the women have enjoyed, especially at events with equal prize money, were thanks to the work of men. In recent years, the ATP Player Council negotiated significant prize-money increases at the Grand Slam events. “A lot of changes happened already thanks to ATP Tour and men, because they speak out and they’re not afraid and they go for it,” Pavlyuchenkova said. “I think that’s why they get a little bit pissed. They’re pulling us. We’re sometimes not as active as they are, and then they say, ‘they’re not doing anything — why should they get the same?’” Lucic-Baroni thought the opposition of some men to equal prize money at joint tournaments, a sentiment that Djokovic expressed in 2016, would prove an immediate obstacle to the players working together. “There’s the difficulty, right there: if you think you deserve more money for the same stuff, we’re going to disagree right away,” she said. Lucie Safarova, a current member of the WTA players’ council, said that sometimes the women do better on their own in the marketplace. She cited the recent deal to move the year-end championships to Shenzhen, China, where a prize money purse of $14 million will dwarf the $8 million the men now receive at their equivalent tournament in London. “That’s one example of we achieved something better than they did,” Safarova said. “There could be more examples like that, and maybe if we would be united, there would be problems.” Djokovic praised the WTA’s deal in Shenzhen, and even suggested that “women’s tennis is more popular than men’s tennis in China.” Djokovic’s answer to a question on the Shenzhen deal lasted 533 words, a testament not only to his verbosity but also his grasp of the issues on tour. That quality, Shriver said, has dwindled among top players. (In recent years, Roger Federer has also served as president of the ATP player council.) “Sometimes many tennis players can be, rightfully so, caught up in their own career and own path, and they lose sight of what’s going on around them business-wise,” Shriver said. “It’s gotten a lot more complicated so it’s understandable that they’ve delegated more and more of the power away.” The 10-member WTA player council does not have a president, and thus identifying a leader is tricky. Venus and Serena Williams have been major forces behind the scenes, particularly on the issue of equal prize money, but neither plays a full schedule of events anymore. Serena Williams is no longer on the council. WTA chief executive Steve Simon said he was impressed with the younger generation’s attention to tour issues. “They’ve become very engaged, they’re beginning to take a real interest in the business and understand it is their business,” Simon said. “I’m excited about that. It’s something we need to continue growing and cultivating, but I’m seeing a good change there and I think it’s very positive.” Elena Vesnina said that men were better at being “more pushy” about tour issues, and that her tour lacked a clear leader like Billie Jean King, who founded the WTA and began the fight for equal pay nearly 45 years ago. “Right now, I don’t see anyone that strong like Billie Jean was in her time,” Vesnina said. “But I feel that something is changing now in the locker room.” Pavlyuchenkova said: “That would be great if these kinds of women’s top players would speak out and do something, because I have a feeling that most of them don’t really care about the tour. Which is normal: they play for themselves and earn money, and I know that it’s a very individual sport and it’s tough to combine practice and meetings. It takes some of your personal time, those calls, and you need to communicate with players and hear their opinion. It’s probably not what they want to do.” Shriver said that with many top players already scooped up by agencies and management companies, which also own and operate tournaments, the deck was stacked against a young player with the independence to drive change. “It would take a special, modern-day Billie Jean or Arthur Ashe, somebody who felt it was worthwhile,” Shriver said. “And maybe it is Novak. But I’m surprised that if he was being this thoughtful with it, he wouldn’t have approached the women.” Lucic-Baroni expressed frustration at players paying lip service to King without actually following her example. “If you praise Billie Jean so much, come on, let’s step up and do something,” she said. “Do what she does or what she did: have a little guts. If you want a change, you step up and do it. It’s really simple.” Kristina Mladenovic, a women’s doubles champion at the Australian Open, said the players did not need a leader for battle, but an increased focus on off-court issues. “It’s not that the players are not united, it’s just that we have very busy schedules,” she said. “Some, they just want to be focused on seeing the yellow ball.”