 PHILADELPHIA — Carson Wentz ate lunch last year with the former N.F.L. quarterback Matt Hasselbeck. As they talked, Hasselbeck, now an analyst for ESPN, wondered whether Wentz knew everything he had said about him — good or bad — on television. Then Wentz asked Hasselbeck what he’d been doing since retiring. “I tell him, and then he goes, ‘What channel is that?’” Hasselbeck said. “‘Oh, ESPN,’ I say. And then I’m like, ‘He really doesn’t know.’” Hasselbeck recounted that story over the phone last week, a few days before Wentz guided the Philadelphia Eagles on Sunday to their sixth consecutive victory, to emphasize what he considers Wentz’s finest quality, one that is becoming ever more relevant. The Eagles, at 7-1, have the best record in the league, and also their best through eight games since 2004, when they last reached the Super Bowl. Even though it has been a while since they actually won the Super Bowl — as in, never — fans have reacted to the Eagles’ success with nothing but restraint and levelheaded calm. No one here has anointed Wentz as an amalgam of Andrew Luck and Brett Favre, or petitioned to rename the state as Wentzylvania, or pricing flights to Minneapolis — site of a certain big game that rhymes with Grouper Roll — for early February. Nah, nothing like that. Witness the power of Wentz, whose development in his second season has accelerated the Eagles’ revival. His obliviousness — to the mounting attention, not just Hasselbeck’s second act in broadcasting — is what can sustain it. “I don’t want to say robotic,” right tackle Lane Johnson said, “but he’s just consistent — really, really consistent.” Before Sunday, when Philadelphia kept the San Francisco 49ers winless by bludgeoning them, 33-10, under steady rain at Lincoln Financial Field, Wentz had thrown at least three touchdown passes in each of his last three games. He mustered only two in what he called a sluggish performance against San Francisco, running his season total to 19, staying on pace to shatter the franchise’s season record of 32. Sonny Jurgensen set the mark in 1961, and the Eagles have had some pretty fair quarterbacks since then: Ron Jaworski, Randall Cunningham and, best of them all, Donovan McNabb, who in his prime — with rare exceptions — afforded the Eagles at least one certainty heading into every game: that they would have the advantage at quarterback. Wentz has not earned that distinction yet, but the Eagles are enamored with how quickly he seems to be getting there. In truth, they are enamored with most things now, from their win-loss record to their red-zone efficiency (68 percent) to their ferocious defense, which sacked 49ers quarterback C. J. Beathard four times, hit him 12 more, and also forced a three-and-out or a turnover on eight of San Francisco’s 14 possessions. On one of those takeaways, Jalen Mills returned an interception 37 yards for a touchdown. “If you’re enjoying your first real dominant season as a team, no one’s going to show up on Sunday and take it for granted,” defensive end Chris Long said. “We haven’t been here before, so let’s build on it.” The Eagles’ joy ride in this muddled N.F.C., where the Los Angeles Rams and Minnesota Vikings are soaring and the Atlanta Falcons and Dallas Cowboys are sagging, has been tempered by several injuries: linebacker Jordan Hicks, running back Darren Sproles and the All-Pro left tackle Jason Peters are all done for the season. Philadelphia’s defense, which entered Sunday as the league’s stingiest against the run, is capable of continuing to mitigate these absences. So is Wentz. In discussing Wentz, Hasselbeck recalled a spirited conversation he had with his ESPN colleague, the Hall of Fame quarterback Steve Young. Hasselbeck has come to espouse Young’s evaluation of quarterbacks: How a quarterback fares between the 20-yard lines doesn’t matter. “You earn your money on third down and then the red zone,” Hasselbeck said. “On third down, this team is relying on you to be this amazing marinara sauce on yesterday’s pasta. Guess what, we don’t have a good answer. Here’s the answer: You make a perfect throw.” Through Week 8, Philadelphia ranks second in third-down conversion rate (47.8) in large part because of Wentz’s improved precision — his placement in tight spaces, in particular — but also because of his ability to prolong plays with his elusiveness, whether by finding open receivers when coverages break down or scrambling to extend the drive. His eight touchdown tosses and 118.8 passer rating on third down lead the N.F.L., according to the sports data service Sportradar. In the red zone, his 13 touchdowns — including a 1-yarder to Zach Ertz, his favorite target, on Sunday — also lead the league. The Eagles demonstrated conviction in moving up to draft Wentz with the No. 2 pick in 2016. Their trade partner, the Cleveland Browns, did not think Wentz would be a top-20 N.F.L. quarterback. In a somewhat related note, the Browns are 1-26 in their last 27 games. (Should we mention that on draft night this year Cleveland traded the No. 12 pick to the Houston Texans, who selected Deshaun Watson, who as a rookie has thrown 19 touchdowns in seven games? No? O.K.) All told, though, the Eagles’ talent on offense at the time of the 2016 draft was comparable to that of Cleveland’s, maybe even worse. They responded by surrounding Wentz with better players, adding running back LeGarrette Blount and receivers Torrey Smith and Alshon Jeffery, who contorted to catch a jump ball along the sideline Sunday that turned into a 53-yard touchdown. Wentz has also benefited from a full off-season of preparation within Coach Doug Pederson’s system. Remember: Just 14 months ago, before being elevated after Philadelphia shipped Sam Bradford to Minnesota, Wentz ranked behind Chase Daniel on the depth chart. A career understudy, Pederson became so adept at decoding defenses from the sideline, Hasselbeck said, that Brett Favre dubbed him The Front Doctor. From backing up Favre — and also Dan Marino, Steve Bono and Jim McMahon — Pederson said he had observed how they communicated with coaches, talking about play calls and game situations. Pederson welcomes that continuing dialogue with Wentz, who carries enough influence and has engendered enough trust that not only can he recommend plays from his time at North Dakota State — he said he had to call there to get the film — but execute them for touchdowns, as he did on a madcap third-down throw to Corey Clement last week against Washington. The Eagles’ victory Sunday lacked such scintillating moments. The weather was ugly, at times the play was, too, and some of Wentz’s poor throws — he missed an open Jeffery in the end zone — could have prompted the fatalists in the crowd to lapse into that familiar emotion roused whenever something good happens in Philadelphia sports: enthusiasm tinged by the resignation that Wentz will soon be walking beneath a plummeting piano. Eight games in, seven victories, one piano. The good news for Wentz, and the Eagles, is that if another does fall, he probably wouldn’t even realize it.