 The crowning moment of any opening ceremony: the final leg of the torch relay and the lighting of the Olympic caldron. Inbee Park, the golfer, was one of the final torchbearers. Two members of the mixed North and South Korean women’s hockey team, Chung Su-hyon of North Korea and Park Jong-ah of South Korea, carried the torch up the stairs. And the hero chosen for the highest of Olympic honors was ... Yuna Kim, the profoundly popular figure skater who won the gold medal in 2010 and the silver in 2014. She is a beloved celebrity in South Korea and often referred to as Queen Yuna. A unified Korean team of athletes marched out together carrying the unification flag as the South Korean president, Moon Jae-in, watched from the stands near Kim Yo-jong, the sister of the North Korean leader. The Olympics may have renewed hopes of a unified Korea for some, but attitudes about becoming a single nation again have shifted since the last time South Korea hosted an Olympics, the 1988 Summer Games in Seoul. In general, younger South Koreans are less favorable toward reintegrating with the impoverished North. In fact, a recent survey showed that more than 70 percent of South Koreans in their 20s were against reunification. They are more interested in domestic issues, like unemployment, and some feel that reuniting the peninsula would be burdensome for the South. The one-man Tongan team is the cross-country skier Pita Taufatofua. He caused a stir at the 2016 Summer Games in Rio de Janeiro, where he was a taekwondo athlete, by carrying the flag shirtless and greased up. And for these frigid Winter Games ... he has done it again. A startling and perhaps foolhardy display given the weather, but the crowd absolutely roared as he made his way through the stadium. Nobody received a better reception here than Taufatofua. The Olympic flag, lifted by a volunteer instead of an athlete, was carried ahead of the Russian team. Or more precisely, the “Olympic Athletes from Russia.” The absence of the Russian flag is part of the punishment for Russia’s state-backed doping program at the Olympics four years ago. But the Russians still have a robust team of more than 160. Missing from the group of athletes from Russia was Viktor Ahn, a short-track speed skater of South Korean descent. He was among the athletes barred from competing in the Pyeongchang Games. Racing here would have been significant for his career. He was one of South Korea’s best skaters and won his first three Olympic golds while competing for South Korea. But after a bitter falling out with South Korean sports officials, Ahn switched his allegiance to Russia. Vice President Mike Pence waved at the huge American contingent — at 242 it is the largest for any country at any Winter Games. The United States also got the chance to walk out to “Gangnam Style,” by far the most successful Korean pop song ever. Not everyone was pleased with the selection of Erin Hamlin as the United States’ flag bearer. In a tweet sent Thursday night, Shani Davis, a four-time medalist in speed skating, said that the United States Olympic Committee had “dishonorably tossed a coin to decide its 2018 flag bearer.” And on Friday, he was a no-show in the Olympic Stadium for the parade of athletes. In a vote of American team representatives this week, Hamlin and Davis had received four votes apiece. A coin flip was used as a tiebreaker, and Hamlin won. “No problem,” Davis added in the tweet. “I can wait until 2022.” Davis, competing at his fifth and presumably final Games, added the hashtag, “#BlackHistoryMonth2018.” Davis did not appear with the rest of the United States long-track team at its news conference on Thursday afternoon. That seemed to be a running theme of these Games so far. For instance, Brian Hansen, one of Davis’s teammates, tweeted out two group photos of the team on Thursday, and Davis was missing from both. There was some commotion in one section of the stadium midway through the parade of athletes when Donald Trump and Kim Jong-un — or, rather, impersonators of them — appeared near the bottom row of stands. There was the famous red baseball cap and red power tie. There was the famous fade haircut. Spectators and members of the news media rushed down to snap photographs of the fake Trump and Kim, who were happy to ham it up for the cameras. Eventually a crew of perturbed-looking ushers came down and broke up the crowd, forcing the pair to leave the stands. The Trump look-alike seemed a bit flustered as he worked his way up the steps. The Kim look-alike could be heard telling him in English, “Walk slowly.” They ducked into a concourse, a pack of journalists in their wake. The backbone of any opening ceremony is the parade of nations. While there are always a diversity of outfits and glimpses of athletic stars, its sheer length can test even the most geographically fascinated fan. This year’s was scheduled to run for nearly an hour in the American broadcast. The athletes were to come out alphabetically, so why were Norway and Netherlands near the front? Because it’s alphabetically by the countries’ names in Korean. Unless that’s one of your fluent languages, this method will provide a dash of the unexpected. (Timor-Leste followed Germany.) With the North Koreans deciding just a month before the start of the Winter Games to send a delegation, there was little time to adjust the opening ceremony. Five hours before the start of the show, Song Seung-whan, a South Korean actor and popular theatrical producer who served as director, said that he had only tinkered with one segment to reflect North Korea’s presence. (He would not offer any spoiler alerts.) Looking relaxed in a black turtleneck sweater and jeans, Mr. Song said that his biggest concern in the run-up to the ceremony was the cold. “We had to develop many contingency plans just in case the weather went bad,” he said. A few days ago, when temperatures plunged below zero degrees Fahrenheit, dancers were given spikes for their shoes to ensure that they could dance in icy conditions. Mr. Song said that engineers were also concerned that the hundreds of electronic devices being deployed for the ceremony might not work in the freezing temperatures, but “we tested them at the rehearsal, and they were fine.” As it turns out, the weather on Friday night was practically balmy, expected to fall only to about 28 degrees. Mr. Song said he struggled to keep the show, which features 1,300 performers and another 700 volunteers in one scene, within a “very limited budget.” He declined to say what that budget was, but noted with a laugh: “It was far less than Beijing.” Thomas Bach, president of the International Olympic Committee, made his appearance. As always, he was introduced as a “gold medal winner” (he won a fencing medal in 1976). Kim Yo-jong, the sister of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, was also in attendance, together with the North’s ceremonial head of state, Kim Yong-nam. President Moon Jae-in of South Korea shook hands with Ms. Kim briefly. There are several unusual things about the site for the ceremony, Pyeongchang Olympic Stadium. First off, it’s small. Seating 35,000, it is dwarfed by the likes of the Maracanã (78,000), which played host to the Summer Games in 2016. Second, it’s just for the ceremony, not any athletic events. Third, it’s temporary. It will be demolished after the Games. And lastly, it is an unusual shape, a pentagon. Evocative of the Olympic rings, other “five” symbolism was featured in the show. The forecasts were true: It’s pretty cold here. Temperatures dipped to around 28 degrees as fans started to enter the stadium an hour before the ceremony, and steady winds made it feel far chillier than that. Reports emerged during the week that scores of spectators attending a rehearsal last Saturday ended up leaving early because of the extreme cold. But several fans outside the stadium on Friday declared themselves ready to face the chill. “I’m from Buffalo,” said Mary Salvador, who had traveled from New York to join a group of Korean adoptees from around the United States. Moments earlier, she had pulled on a pair of dark ski pants. Pulling hand warmers from her pocket, she added, “You need these. We’ve been using these all week.” The ceremonies at the previous two Winter Olympics, in Sochi, Russia, and Vancouver, British Columbia, were indoors, and cold temperatures were not an issue at those Games, anyway. Organizers here were proactive in addressing the weather. Each attendee at the stadium received a package that included hand and foot warmers, a wool hat, a poncho, a blanket and a heated seat cushion. “Just wear layers and layers to protect yourself from the wind,” said Lauri Leppanen, 38, who was visiting from Turku, Finland, with his partner, Sanna Saarinen, 35. “I’m wearing merino wool, which is pretty cozy.”