 ATHENS, Ga. — The Georgia Bulldogs’ coming-out party as the No. 1 team in the College Football Playoff selection committee ratings, a 24-10 win over South Carolina on Saturday, was like an actual bulldog: a bit bumpy, not without wrinkles, but ultimately something you would be glad to take home. Georgia, which is ranked No. 2 in the Associated Press poll, improved to 9-0 over all, 6-0 in the Southeastern Conference, while the Gamecocks dropped to 6-3, 4-3. The Bulldogs clinched the SEC East title and a spot in the conference championship game when Kentucky lost later on Saturday. The opponent will most likely be Alabama, which is Georgia’s mirror image in the rankings — No. 1 in the A.P. poll, but second in the playoff committee’s first rating of the season, which was released on Tuesday. The crowd here, decked out in candy cane red, was treated to several unusual sights early on. Georgia opened the game with a surprise (and failed) onside kick — an underdog maneuver from a team that oddsmakers had favored by more than three touchdowns. Through one quarter, the offense — which entered the game averaging roughly 1.75 yards rushing for every yard passing — had gained more through the air than on the ground, and the Bulldogs had managed just 7 points, despite an average of more than 38 per game. South Carolina kept it close for a time. Early in the second quarter, Gamecocks wide receiver Bryan Edwards was ruled out of bounds on a 12-yard catch in the end zone, only for a video review to reveal that he was in fact in, making it 7-7. But on the next drive, Georgia’s productive offensive backfield came alive: Five Bulldogs rushed the ball during a 75-yard march that culminated in an out-of-bounds ruling against the senior wide receiver Javon Wims on a 10-yard catch in the end zone, only for a video review to reveal that he was in fact in, making it 14-7. The third quarter began with the Bulldogs putting together another touchdown drive, one that drained more than five minutes off the clock. They were helped immensely by the senior running back Sony Michel, who finished with 97 total yards from scrimmage. Michel converted a first down by juking a defender on a short screen pass that became a 16-yard gain. Quarterback Jake Fromm soon hit the sophomore wide receiver Mecole Hardman on a gorgeous 20-yard end zone fade. Fromm is Georgia’s difference-maker this season. The Bulldogs have stellar running backs by rote, and under their second-year head coach, Kirby Smart, who won a national title two years ago as Alabama’s defensive coordinator, they were bound to be ferocious on that side of the ball. But the program has long struggled with quarterbacks, and Smart’s biggest decision to date has been to keep Fromm, a true freshman, as the starter over Jacob Eason, a sophomore who started last year. Eason sustained a minor knee injury in the season opener, enabling Fromm to take the job for a Week 2 visit to No. 5 Notre Dame — and to hold on to it with a 20-19 win. Fromm threw for two touchdowns and no interceptions, improving his season-long ratio to 15:4. Georgia has a tough test next weekend at Auburn (7-2, 5-1), which is No. 16 in the A.P. rankings and is coming off a 42-27 victory at Texas A&amp;M.