 PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — Shortly after 11 a.m. for the last several days, Sung Baik-yoo, the chief spokesman for the organizers of the 2018 Winter Olympics, has leaned into a microphone at a news conference and provided a ticket sales update. The news is always a little more positive than the day before. By Thursday, Sung said organizers were within one percent of their target of 90 percent sold out, a figure that equals about one million tickets sold. Yet the scene at venues here in Pyeongchang, South Korea, from the ski slopes in the mountain cluster to the ice sports stadiums of Olympic Park, tells a story far different from Sung’s pronouncements of success. Swaths of empty blue seats have been a familiar backdrop despite organizers’ efforts to fill in gaps by providing volunteers with so-called passion tickets that allow them to attend events and by bringing in school groups by the busload. So far, fans have been able to show up right before the start of all but the most popular events and buy a ticket. Peter Skinner, an Australian who traveled to the Games from his home in Bangkok, said he regretted purchasing tickets months before the Games started. “We’re never again buying tickets in advance,” said Skinner, as he walked with his wife toward the hockey arena for the first session of the men’s competition. One event they had been looking forward to, the men’s downhill, was postponed along with several other skiing events because of bad weather. They headed to figure skating instead. “It’s sad, it’s half empty,” he said of the sparse attendance he had seen. It is not just the spectators who have noticed. Aksel Lund Svindal of Norway described completing his gold medal run in the men’s downhill on Thursday in front of a mostly empty grandstand as “a little bit strange.” The low attendance may be partly attributed to the fact that South Korea does not have a culture of Alpine sports. It has achieved Winter Olympic success in just two events, speedskating and figure skating. At some Games in other countries, locals have packed venues to watch unfamiliar sports just to be a part of the experience. That has not happened here. A near-capacity crowd watched the short-track speedskater Lim Hyo-jun secure South Korea’s first gold medal on Saturday, but less popular events are taking place in front of blocks of empty seats. “If we had this race in Italy, Austria, Norway, Sweden, it would be packed with 50,000 people,” Svindal said. To be fair, he said, he doubted people in Norway would fill an arena for short-track speedskating, like they did here, but he still wished he had won his medal amid a more raucous atmosphere. “It’s a bit sad.” Empty seats are not a problem unique to the Pyeongchang Games. Organizers of the last two Olympics — in Rio de Janeiro in 2016 and Sochi two years earlier — also found themselves under scrutiny as images of half-empty venues were beamed worldwide. Unused seats reserved for sponsors and athletes were blamed then. Organizers are doing the same here. “We find they are the empty seats,” said a spokeswoman for Pyeongchang 2018, though it is unlikely that is the lone explanation. Organizers continue to advertise the Games and are actively encouraging fans to buy tickets on-site. Heightened political tension between North Korea and the United States in the buildup to the Games did not help sales. Less than six months before the Games opened, President Trump threatened to unleash “fire and fury” on North Korea in response to a spate of missile tests by the North. The heavily armed border separating the Koreas is about 40 miles from the Olympic Park. Occasional ticketing and transportation mix-ups have also caused venues to fill up only after events in them have started. A women’s hockey game on Wednesday between a joint Korean team and Japan was well into the first period when one ticketholder, Jewell Hatton from Pennsylvania, said an attendant stopped her and told her that her ticket was invalid. Organizers had reassigned her seat, and new arrangements would have to be made. “That happened last night, too,” Hatton said. Organizers said some tickets had to be reissued because of additional space required by broadcasters. Groups of South Korean schoolchildren have been a common sight, bused in for field trips as part of a program by the Ministry of Education to educate young Koreans about winter sports. They also fill empty seats quite nicely. At a recent hockey game, a group of schoolchildren hungrily snapped photographs of the all-women cheerleading troupe from North Korea. A program is also in place for Olympic volunteers to take up unoccupied seats. They are required to remove their uniforms so they are not identifiable, and they are obligated to move should a paying spectator show up. “We also hope that this will help to increase the stadium’s atmosphere, so that athletes can perform their best,” a spokesman for Pyeongchang 2018 said. Some foreign fans who have found limited transportation options are also rethinking whether to attend late-night sessions. Organizers run buses to central hubs, but after that, fans are largely on their own amid the freezing temperatures. “I’ve had to call the guy who owns the hotel near where we are staying to come and pick me up,” said Skinner, the Australian from Bangkok. He said he had seen other spectators ask volunteers — and even police officers — for rides. He is staying about three miles from the venues — close compared with some fans. But, he added, “It’s a long way to walk when it’s minus 15.” At least one athlete saw the relative quiet as a silver lining. Laura Dahlmeier, a German biathlete, said that she needs to be able to concentrate as she fires her rifle at the target. “I prefer this to when 50,000 people are screaming,” she said.