 When the Madison Square Garden Company announced on Tuesday its intention to discard women’s professional basketball from its portfolio, James L. Dolan, the company’s chairman and chief executive, singled out the accolades of one employee during the Liberty’s 21-year history. That person is not in the Liberty’s Ring of Honor or on the current roster. Dolan, who also owns the Knicks and the Rangers, gave his lone personal thank you to Isiah Thomas, a close friend and perhaps the most controversial figure in team history. Dolan credited Thomas for leadership, bringing in more sponsor money and developing a team that has experienced a revitalization of late. Thomas’s actual impact on the Liberty is debatable, his tenure polarizing and complicated. Before the 2015 season, the Liberty were in disarray. Dolan would say later that year that the team was a financial drain. In a highly scrutinized move, Dolan made Thomas an adviser and later named him team president, a post that included an ownership stake in the Liberty. In October 2007, Thomas was found liable in a sexual harassment case brought by a former Knicks executive when he coached that team from 2006 to 2008. There were initial criticisms and protests, and Thomas ultimately did not become an owner, but the Liberty became a perennial contender with him as president. They won 20 or more regular-season games for three straight years. The team also was among the pioneers in American professional sports in protesting against gun violence, and racial and gender inequalities. In July 2016, players wore black T-shirts addressing the shooting deaths of black men by the police, and the fatal shooting of five Dallas officers. In an interview in August, Thomas said that he prioritized fostering a united, vocally progressive locker room — the kind of environment that might have led players to speak out against the allegations that followed Thomas 10 years earlier. “These type of discussions we have daily as a team and within our organization,” Thomas said. “They have the educational background and the life experiences to truly speak to them and articulate themselves in a way that most professional athletes can’t.” Speakers like Attallah Shabazz, a daughter of Malcolm X, were brought in throughout the year to cultivate the Liberty’s message. As the team found its voice and escaped its on-court doldrums, some fans, in interviews throughout last season, said that they had slowly embraced Thomas. Others still struggled with supporting someone whose past conflicted with their personal values. Thomas presented a public image supportive of issues important to many Liberty fans. Before the Liberty’s game against the Indiana Fever on Aug. 8, Thomas tweeted out a photo championing “girl power” standing next to the W.N.B.A. president, Lisa M. Borders; the former player Swin Cash; and Chelsea Clinton. The tweet ended with the hashtag #ShePersisted, in reference to a book Clinton wrote about influential women. Last season, Thomas joined the Liberty on a float in the New York Pride March and developed a partnership with Planned Parenthood. “This is a fan base sometimes that necessarily doesn’t have a voice in society,” Thomas said. “We are not only giving the voiceless a voice, but we’re also having a damn good time doing it.” Thomas hired former Liberty players like Cash to front-office positions. Last month, another former player, Katie Smith, was promoted to head coach. While Dolan rarely attended Liberty events over the last three years, Thomas trained with guards during practices and became a regular presence at home games, where ticket holders often flocked to him for pictures. “Winning does cure a lot of ills,” said Mary Jo Kane, director of the Tucker Center for Research on Girls and Women in Sports at the University of Minnesota. Kane said that providing team stability and being committed to making the Liberty a world-class organization “does not excuse his past behavior by any means, adding: “No one I think is saying Isiah Thomas is a good guy. However, if it’s framed in people deserve a second chance and people deserve an opportunity for redemption, it appears he’s taken advantage of those opportunities.” Despite Dolan’s kudos on Tuesday, credit for the Liberty’s revival did not fall solely to Thomas. Many around the team have cited the influence of Kristin Bernert, a former senior vice president for business operations who now works with the Knicks. Cash and the former Liberty guard Tanisha Wright were also influential in leading the team’s protests. Since 2015, it has been suggested that the Liberty job was a steppingstone for Thomas to return to the N.B.A. “I think there was that suspicion early on because he’s a Dolan buddy and that was the backdoor way to get him into the Knicks,” said Helen Wheelock, who has bought Liberty ticket plans since their first season, 1997. “The fact that women are playing sports is by its very nature political because it is challenging the social norms. That’s why it was so dissonant to have somebody like Thomas come in. But I also look at Dolan and go, well, you know, he doesn’t listen to the songs that are around. He literally plays his own guitar.” When Phil Jackson was relieved of his duties as Knicks president in June, reports surfaced that Thomas, who also works for NBA TV, held interest in the job. He posted a message on Twitter denying the speculation. “I love the Liberty, I love what I’m doing,” Thomas said in August. “I had no interest in leaving something that I’ve started. We got a good thing going here.” Asked later how long he envisioned himself as president of the Liberty, Thomas was less committal, saying: “I have no idea. You never know what tomorrow’s going to bring.” Dolan’s plans to sell the team now make Thomas’s future with the Liberty even more uncertain. On Tuesday, Thomas’s Twitter account did not mention the possible sale, instead promoting his various appearances on NBA TV.