 JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — Remember how excited everyone was over the surprising upstarts that had qualified for this year’s N.F.L. playoffs? Not since 1964 had customary powers like the Giants, Dallas Cowboys, Green Bay Packers, Washington Redskins and San Francisco 49ers all missed the postseason. Then the Buffalo Bills and Jacksonville Jaguars faced off here Sunday in an A.F.C. wild-card game that played out as if it belonged in 1964 instead of 2018. Not only were there only 13 total points scored in Jacksonville’s 10-3 win over the Bills, but the winning quarterback, Blake Bortles, completed just 12 passes and ran for more yards than he threw for. In the first half, after Bortles and Bills quarterback Tyrod Taylor produced just two passes longer than 10 yards between them, it felt as if both might come out for the second half in high-top shoes and single-bar face masks to complete the 1960s motif. The N.F.L.’s regular season is designed to give weaker teams a fighting chance at a playoff berth, but anyone watching the clumsy, amateurish Buffalo offense was quickly reminded why the Bills had not been in the playoffs since the 1999 season. The same fans may also understand why the Jaguars had not been in the postseason in 10 seasons, either, as their offense was nearly as one-dimensional and inept. Asked about his offense after Sunday’s game, Jacksonville Coach Doug Marrone readily conceded: “I’d be a fool to say I’m not concerned. If you want to keep playing this month, you have to do better than that.” But if there is another takeaway from Sunday’s snoozer of a game, it is this: Jacksonville’s defense is not to be underestimated. Good defensive play is always a top priority whenever the playoff schedule leads to cold-weather climates. Of next weekend’s four divisional-round games, three will be played outdoors in the north. The fourth will be played in Minnesota, but in a domed stadium. Jacksonville will travel to Pittsburgh, where the Jaguars throttled the Steelers, 30-9, in October. In the Jaguars’ locker room after the game Sunday, not surprisingly, no one spent much time talking about the offense. Defensive end Calais Campbell said the theme of the halftime locker room conversation — the score was tied at 3-3 then — was simple. “On defense, we knew if the offense could just get a touchdown then we’d hold that lead from there,” Campbell said. To Marrone’s credit, when his offense stalled at the Buffalo 1-yard line late in the third quarter, he did not demur, electing to go for it on fourth down. Not only that, he opted for deception, lining up in what appeared to be an obvious run formation before tricking the Bills with a fake to running back Leonard Fournette and a quick throw to tight end Ben Koyack in the back of the end zone. It was Bortles’s passing highlight, one of his 12 completions in 23 attempts, which netted only 87 passing yards. Bortles ran for 88 yards on 10 rushing attempts, most of them scrambles out of the pocket. Jacksonville’s usual formula for success is a heavy dose of Fournette, but he struggled to find running room Sunday and gained just 57 yards on 21 carries. He was most ineffective when Jacksonville needed him most — in the fourth quarter as it was trying to protect its narrow lead. But true to its word, the Jaguars defense made the lone touchdown of the game stand up. In doing so, it proved once again why it is one of the N.F.L.’s best. The Bills’ bungling play helped, but the Jaguars’ defense also recorded two interceptions, including late in the game when the unthinkable — a late Bills rally to tie the game — still seemed possible. “Look, we have an attitude and a motto,” said Jacksonville defensive tackle Malik Jackson. “We tell the offense, ‘Hey, just don’t turn over the ball to the other team and we’ll take care of the rest.’ “We don’t worry about what the offense is doing — or not doing.” Marrone, for whom the victory must have been heartening because he was once Buffalo’s coach, acknowledged that his defense exemplifies his team’s overall personality. He also noted that there was little panic in the halftime locker room. “We weren’t doing things the way we wanted to do them offensively,” Marrone said. “But this team, like the defense, isn’t easily rattled.” Which may come in handy in Pittsburgh. One thing is certain. As unsightly as Sunday’s game was — for both teams and for all those watching at home — the Jaguars thought it was a beautiful thing. “Playoff football is about winning and moving on — it’s not a beauty contest,” Marrone said. “So you have to remember that.” Around the Jaguars’ locker room, the defensive players were more defiant than their coach. “You don’t apologize in the playoffs,” Campbell said. “We earned the right to move on in the playoffs. Other teams did not. I don’t care what anybody else says, there are no ugly playoff victories.”