 We’ve seen enough football heading into N.F.L. Week 8to point out some of the biggest surprises (from a fantasy sports perspective). Four of the top five fantasy quarterbacks — Alex Smith, Carson Wentz, Deshaun Watson and Dak Prescott — were not among the top 10 taken in fantasy drafts, according to average draft position. Smith, who is the top fantasy quarterback this season, was the 24th quarterback off the board. Elsewhere, things have rolled out more according to plan. Six of the top 10 running backs selected in fantasy drafts are among the top 10 in total fantasy points for the position, and five of the top six fantasy receivers were among the top 12 taken in drafts. With all that said, the next seven weeks could turn into a season all its own, with young, breakout stars like Watson and Kareem Hunt coming back to earth and established veterans like LeSean McCoy and Drew Brees returning to elite status. Or not. Only time will tell. For now, let’s see how Week 8 is shaping up in fantasy land. Philip Rivers (LAC at Patriots) — Being fourth in the league in passing attempts has translated into only the 13th most fantasy points per game among quarterbacks (15.5). But that is about where most analysts had him ranked heading into the season. He has an excellent shot at being a top 10 quarterback in Week 8 against the Patriots, who have allowed five of the seven quarterbacks they’ve faced to top 20 fantasy points and the most total fantasy points to the position through seven weeks. Carson Wentz (PHI vs. 49ers) — Few have ever doubted Wentz’s potential, but even fewer expected him to be among the best fantasy quarterbacks so far this season. He has 11 passing touchdowns over his last three games, and only four interceptions on the season. His 21.7 F.P.P.G. is fourth best for his position, and this week he takes on the 49ers, who have yielded 24.0 F.P.P.G. to quarterbacks over the last five weeks and the second most total on the season. Also consider: Andy Dalton (CIN vs. Colts) LeGarrette Blount (PHI vs. 49ers) — It has not always been pretty for Blount this season, particularly last week, when it took him 14 carries to earn 29 rushing yards. But he has been a borderline RB2/Flex option when you look at his entire season, averaging 8.3 F.P.P.G., good for 25th among running backs. He should be a very solid RB2 this week against the 49ers, who are even worse against opposing running backs than they are against quarterbacks. Eight backs have topped 10 fantasy points against them in seven games, and they’ve given up a shocking 26.4 F.P.P.G. to the position this season. Melvin Gordon (LAC at Patriots) — He has looked like the RB1 that fantasy owners drafted him as for most of this season: His total of 14.9 F.P.P.G. is sixth best among running backs. He had only two poor performances, including last week’s against the Broncos (4.4 fantasy points). He should get back on track in a big way against the Patriots, who have not only allowed the fourth most rushing yards, but also the second most receiving yards, to running backs, and 20.4 F.P.P.G. to the position. Also consider: Jay Ajayi (MIA vs. Jets) Kelvin Benjamin (CAR at Buccaneers) — After a rocky start, Benjamin has been the eighth best fantasy receiver over the last four weeks (9.7 F.P.P.G.), even with last week’s rough game against the Bears (three catches for 65 yards). The Buccaneers offer an excellent opportunity for Benjamin to right the ship, as six receivers have topped 10 fantasy points in their six games played. Over all, their 28.4 F.P.P.G. yielded to the receiver position is the second most. If you’re still not convinced, Benjamin will line up opposite to cornerback Robert McClain, who is the lowest rated player of the team’s entire starting defense, according to ProFootballFocus.com. Demaryius Thomas (DEN at Chiefs) — If any player is due to score a touchdown this week, it is Thomas, who has gone 12 consecutive games without one, dating to last season. But he is still averaging 8.4 targets per game this season, and his teammate Emmanuel Sanders might miss a second game in a row with an ankle injury. The Chiefs, despite the presence of the star cornerback Marcus Peters, have allowed the most fantasy points to the position in 2017 (30.4 F.P.P.G.) Also consider: Keenan Allen (LAC at Patriots); Nelson Agholor (PHI vs. 49ers) Jason Witten (DAL vs. Redskins) — With six teams on a bye this week, Witten makes for an excellent streaming option against the Redskins, who have allowed a touchdown to the position in three of the last four games and the second most F.P.P.G. (11.7) over all. Witten has quietly been one of the better fantasy tight ends this season, with his 7.4 F.P.P.G. the eighth best so far this season. Also consider: Kyle Rudolph (MIN at Browns) MIN at Browns; NO vs. Bears Jake Elliott (PHI vs. 49ers); Steven Hauschka (BUF vs. OAK).