 GANGNEUNG, South Korea — It was their first outing as a team together, and it was a rout. The unified Korean women’s hockey team, which skated onto the ice bearing the heaviest symbolic weight of the Pyeongchang Games, lost, 8-0, to Switzerland on Saturday night. As the only sports team competing here with athletes from both North and South Korea, the women’s ice hockey players had come to represent hopes of a breakthrough in a geopolitical standoff that has stirred fears of nuclear conflict on the divided peninsula. With South Korea’s president, Moon Jae-in, watching from the stands with Kim Yong-nam, the North’s ceremonial head of state, and Kim Yo-jong, the only sister of Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, the diplomatic agenda driving the unified team was never in doubt. Jong Su-hyon, a North Korean player, said at a news conference after the game that playing in front of top leadership of both countries was “the greatest honor for me.” She added that playing in the Olympics “felt like competing in heaven” — or so the translator said, before correcting her interpretation to: “It felt like I was competing in my own country.” (In an email Sunday, Eunji Lee, the interpreter from the Pyeongchang Organizing Committee, said that she had misheard the Korean word “cho-gook,” or “my own country,” as “chon-gook,” or “heaven,” because of Jong’s North Korean accent. Lee wrote that other Korean reporters at the news conference corrected her misinterpretation immediately.) Inside Kwandong Hockey Centre, the cheering was intense for the Korean team, with fans waving both South Korean and unity flags any time one of the players got close to Switzerland’s net. But the team never had much of a chance. Switzerland scored three goals in the first period, another three in the second period and its final two in the third, outmatching the unified Korean team throughout. “Because this game was the game anticipated by everybody in Korea, I was very nervous before the game,” said Park Jong-ah, a South Korean player who was a penultimate torchbearer with Jong a night earlier at the opening ceremony in Pyeongchang. On Saturday, a dozen North Korean players appeared on the Olympic women’s team roster, and three of them skated during the game. The North Korean hockey players were far outnumbered by close to 200 of their fellow countrywomen, cheerleaders who sat in groups in the stands, outfitted in scarlet red track suits and white hats. Clapping and singing in perfect unison, they repeatedly chanted, “Win! Be Strong!” and swayed back and forth waving flags bearing the map of a unified Korea. Spectators were more divided: While some carried the unity flags, many waved South Korean flags. The cheerleaders resolutely stuck to what looked like a highly scripted performance. When a few bars of “We Will Rock You” by Queen blasted from the loudspeakers, the North Korean cheerleaders sat still. And when “DNA,” a song by the South Korean boy band BTS, came on just before the start of the second period, the cheerleaders persisted in singing and swaying to their own independent songs, perfectly synchronized with one another but comically off the beat of the pop song. Some South Korean spectators said they mainly came for the chance to see North Koreans for the first time. “There will be no opportunity except at the Olympics to see North Koreans,” said Seo Joo-hee, 21, an engineering designs student at Korea Tech who attended the game with a group of university classmates. Before the Games, a backlash against the last-minute addition of the North Korean players to the South Korean roster had cast a shadow over a moment that was meant to exemplify unity. In a poll taken by the Korea Society Opinion Institute last week, just over half of South Koreans said that they did not believe the Pyeongchang Olympics could improve inter-Korean relations. But inside the stadium, which was a little more than half full, some spectators said they believed the team could help ease tensions. “Having this united team in the international games will help heal the relationship between North and South Korea,” said Park Chae-yeon, 22, a student at Yongnam University. “I think it is so meaningful to see this historical event.” At the final buzzer, a 30-foot white banner was unfurled in the stands that read, “We are one.” The North Korean cheerleaders chanted that same phrase over and over while waving their flags. Earlier on Saturday, the Olympic diplomacy seemed to yield an early dividend as Kim Yo-jong, Kim Jong-un’s sister and trusted adviser, met with Moon at the presidential Blue House in Seoul in the highest-level contact between the two Koreas in years. She passed on a message from Kim, who invited Moon to visit Pyongyang “at a convenient date.” Supporters of the unified team, the first combined Korean team to appear at an Olympics, said that the women were doing honor to the country’s long and painful history. “We are a sad, divided nation and when it comes to solving this problem, there is no South or North Korea,” said Jo Jung-rae, one of South Korea’s most well-known novelists, in an interview last week. “It is a historical issue that transcends time. If young people can understand that, I think South Korean women’s ice hockey players can think bigger for our nation and our people.” At the postgame news conference, Jong would not comment on whether the unified team would ultimately contribute to peace. “Because I am an athlete I cannot really answer that question,” Jong said. “Because I focus on sports.” Some analysts said that trying to leverage the Olympics in such an overtly political way could backfire. “If, after the Olympics, Kim Jong-un starts up again and ratchets up tensions,” said Sheila Miyoshi Jager, a professor of East Asian Studies at Oberlin College, there could be a backlash from “all the people who said ‘you gave into the North Koreans and we shared the hockey teams and this is what we get.’ ” Indeed, some spectators at Saturday’s game were skeptical that bringing the two countries together on one team would have any lasting effect. “It was so sudden that the Korean government put the North Korean players on the South Korean team,” said Ahn Jae-myeong, 23, a hockey fan and student at Kwangwoon University in Seoul who came to see the game. “I think the effect will only be temporary. I think Kim Jong-un has betrayed South Korea so many times and we cannot guarantee what will happen after the Games.” Even before South Korea combined its team with North Korea, the group was something of a hybrid. Several players were born and raised outside of South Korea but naturalized in order to play on the team for the Olympics. Most of the members of the South Korean team, ranked 22nd in the world before the Olympics, have played together since 2013. They did not find out that the North Koreans were joining them until mid-January, when the rest of the world also heard the news. The merged team had to overcome some language barriers. While both the naturalized and South Korean-born players used English words for basic ice hockey terms such as “shoot,” “pass” and “change,” the North Korean players did not use any English terms. “The North Korean players have their own vocabulary that has evolved in North Korea and that has been a big challenge,” said Randi Heesoo Griffin, a player who became a South Korean citizen for the Olympic team. In a mixed-zone interview, Choi Jiyeon, a South Korean player, said that communication did not work well on the ice Saturday night. Whether it was linguistic or other problems, in the end the team was simply outmatched by Switzerland. “I think we had the great support from the people in the stadium, but then we were not able to live up to their expectations,” Jong said. Still, she said, “as one we are stronger than being divided.” “As one unified team I hope we can go forward together,” Jong added. “I think as one team I think we will excel not just in sports but in other areas as well.”