 Just like in any sports movie worth its salt, the montage told the story best. In early May 2017, Michael Eisner arrived at the Guildhall in Portsmouth, England, to face 1,500 fans of the city’s soccer team. His task was a delicate one: to persuade at least 75 percent of them to sell their beloved club, Portsmouth F.C., to “an ancient Hollywood executive” and his sons. There would be, he knew, a degree of skepticism. Portsmouth’s previous experience with foreign owners suggested they brought nothing but trouble. First under Russian-Israeli, and then Emirati, Saudi and Nepali ownership, the century-old club had sunk all the way from the Premier League to League Two, English soccer’s fourth tier. It had flirted with oblivion; only a consortium comprising some 3,000 local fans, reaching into their own pockets, had saved it from extinction. Facing those fan-owners, Eisner realized he had a tough sell. He knew it would not be enough to turn up to the Guildhall and “sit on a stool and pontificate.” A naval base on England’s south coast, Portsmouth is a tough, tight-knit sort of a place; being lectured by a mogul who had just jetted in from California with no prior knowledge of or investment in soccer would not go over well. Instead, he started with a 25-minute presentation — “The sort I have done all my life,” Eisner said. He laid out his vision for what Portsmouth F.C. would be under the aegis of the Tornante Company, his investment firm. “We did not promise to spend hundreds of millions of pounds, to build up debt,” Eisner said. “I said, ‘If that’s what you want, I’m not the guy.’” Instead, he preached caution, continuity: “Slow and steady.” And then, just before he and his sons answered fans’ questions for an hour, Eisner directed his audience to the short video montage he had made. “Winning feels good, and it sure is fun,” he said as he turned toward the screen at his back. “This should give you an idea of what I mean.” The montage took in Eisner’s real-life sporting success during his two decades leading Disney — the Anaheim Angels winning baseball’s World Series; the Anaheim Ducks lifting hockey’s Stanley Cup — but also nodded to Portsmouth’s winning the F.A. Cup in 2008, and its sealing promotion out of League Two only a couple of weeks before the gathering. But it blended them with scenes of fictional triumphs, all of them drawn from the couple of dozen sports movies Disney had produced during Eisner’s tenure. The first was Kurt Russell’s inspirational speech as Herb Brooks from the film “Miracle” — “Great moments are born from great opportunity” — and then came all of the most uplifting, transcendent scenes from “The Mighty Ducks” and “The Bad News Bears,” “Remember the Titans” and “Angels in the Outfield.” No distinction was made, no line drawn, between the real and the imagined, the spontaneous and the scripted. There was no need to do that, in Eisner’s eyes. The films all followed the same narrative: the triumph of the underdog. “If it’s a good sports movie, it’s to do with winning,” Eisner said. Sports and movies, to Eisner, are the same thing at heart: They are both — they are all — stories. He has spent his career telling them, and Portsmouth is simply the latest. That is not to say that this is some whim. He is asked “all the time” why he has, at age 75, chosen to get involved with the ownership of an English soccer team, particularly one so stripped of glamour and so deprived of investment as Portsmouth. Even his wife has ventured the question. “I could ask, why not?” is his stock response. Eisner knows the on-demand media landscape as well as anyone: Tornante produces an animated series for Netflix and has other projects in the pipeline for Amazon. But he also knows that sports is the only “water-cooler friendly” content left. “The only thing in the future, and today, that is appointment to view,” he said of live sports. “There’s a saying in hockey: you skate to where the puck is going to be. This is a good place to be in the media.” His group’s initial investment of $7.8 million, a deal completed in August, is “one of the least risky things” he has ever done — much less risky, in his opinion, than his decision to take over a perpetually troubled Disney in 1984. He considered investing in American sports, he said, but found the cost of franchises in its major leagues beyond the pale. He said he considered deals for both Real Salt Lake and the Houston Dynamo in Major League Soccer, but neither came to fruition. Then, inspired by his ownership of the Topps trading card company and encouraged by visits to Arsenal with his son, he decided that English soccer was a better bet. He discussed buying a Premier League team, but when a Chinese investor gazumped his offer on one club, he decided to alter his strategy. “I thought about promotion and relegation,” he said. “If I paid a Premier League price to get into this exclusive club, and they got relegated, I would fall into a deep depression. But if I bought a club in League One or League Two, where the upside was big and the downside small, where you can build up, not fall off the floor, that would be better.” In this case, the better business proposition goes hand-in-glove with the better story. Over the last eight years, Portsmouth has become a byword for the perils of English soccer’s laissez-faire approach to foreign investment. There have been whispers of loan sharks and mafia connections and Continent -wide arrest warrants. One of the club’s former owners, a Saudi businessman called Ali al-Faraj, earned the nickname “Al-Mirage” because nobody was quite sure if he even existed. That is partly what made Eisner’s offer so tempting to Portsmouth that 87 percent of the fan-owners backed it: the fact that he is very definitely real. “That he is well-known helped,” said Simon Colebrook, the chairman of the Pompey Supporters’ Trust. “We know where he comes from and where his money comes from. He has a public reputation to maintain, so if he does the dirty on us, he has something to lose.” But it also may be what made Portsmouth so attractive to Eisner: the sense that there is a story here to be told, something to build, a team to take from the depths to the heights. That is the narrative arc of the sports movies he knows so well, after all — the small made mighty, the underdog rising from obscurity to greatness. It is a story into which Eisner has thrown himself. The little things hint at his commitment. He says “pitch,” not “field.” He pronounces Portsmouth, as the British do, with the emphasis on the first syllable, not the last, as most outsiders might. He has set about learning the city as much as the club: He mentions its naval history; the fact that it is home to a new aircraft carrier, H.M.S. Queen Elizabeth; the size of its university. Colebrook said that Eisner had become known for replying to fans’ emails. He is currently researching how to redesign the club’s crest, because the current one is simply the city’s coat of arms, and therefore cannot be trademarked; his reading has taken him from histories of soccer to the work of Charles Dickens. So far, fans seem encouraged by what they have seen. Mark Catlin, a chief executive first installed by the Pompey Supporters’ Trust, remains in place, running the club’s day-to-day operations. “It is still early days, but there is a different competence level,” said Colebrook, compared to what has gone before. Much will depend on what Eisner can do with Fratton Park, Portsmouth’s evocative but crumbling home. In December, he invited the famed architect Robert A. M. Stern to a match to pick his brain on a potential redesign. “That is where he will be able to leave a legacy,” Colebrook said. Eisner is not in a rush. He is preaching caution, the slow and steady progress he discussed on the stage at the Guildhall. He says he is not going to do something “crazy.” Portsmouth has tried that before, that “temporary high and enormous low.” It is a story the club, and city, knows all too well. It is not a story that ends in a montage, and it is not the story Eisner is here to tell.