 Alex Hornibrook threw four touchdown passes, three of them to Danny Davis, and No. 6 Wisconsin ended a season with the most wins in program history with a victory over No. 11 Miami, 34-24, in the Orange Bowl on Saturday night in Miami Gardens, Fla. “We were pretty relaxed,” Hornibrook said. “We knew we had what it takes to win this game.” Jonathan Taylor finished his record-setting freshman season with 130 rushing yards on 26 carries for the Badgers (13-1), who rallied from an early 14-3 deficit. Taylor finished the year with 1,977 yards, a Football Bowl Subdivision record for a freshman. A. J. Taylor also had a scoring catch for Wisconsin and mimicked ripping Miami’s “Turnover Chain” off the neck of his teammate Kendric Pryor. The Badgers dominated time of possession, holding the ball for nearly 40 minutes. Hornibrook completed 23 of 34 passes for 258 yards, going 20 for 25 in the final three quarters. Travis Homer and Deejay Dallas had rushing scores for Miami, which was in the Orange Bowl for the 10th time and lost on its home field for the first time in 2017. Lawrence Cager had a touchdown catch for the Hurricanes, while quarterback Malik Rosier was 11 for 26 passing for 203 yards — with three interceptions. The Hurricanes had a chance to get within a touchdown midway through the fourth, but Michael Badgley’s chip-shot field goal went off the right upright. By the time the Hurricanes got the ball back, most of their fans were gone and only 1 minute 37 seconds remained. Rosier was picked off for a third time 18 seconds later, and the Badgers ran out the clock. The Big Ten is 7-0 in bowls this season. FIESTA BOWL Trace McSorley threw for 342 yards and had both of his touchdown passes to DaeSean Hamilton on third-down plays — a sore spot for much of the season — helping No. 9 Penn State outlast No. 12 Washington, 35-28, in Glendale, Ariz. “We were very efficient,” Penn State Coach James Franklin said. “We executed.” Penn State, No. 9 in the final College Football Playoff rankings, had its way with Washington’s vaunted defense early, building a 28-7 lead by the second quarter. Washington woke up from an offensive slumber with two touchdowns and narrowed the deficit to 35-28 on Myles Gaskins’s 69-yard touchdown run in the fourth quarter. “We came out flat in the first half,” Washington linebacker Tevis Bartlett said. The Nittany Lions converted three third-down attempts on a final clock-winding drive and were 13 for 17 on third down over all. Washington took a final shot with a desperation play that included several laterals and passes, but Dante Pettis’s final lateral was intercepted after he passed up a chance to step out of bounds and set up one more play. Washington had the nation’s top run defense during the regular season, allowing 92 yards per game, but Saquon Barkley matched that figure on a single run in the second quarter. Barkley had 137 of the Nittany Lions’ 203 rushing yards and two touchdowns. LIBERTY BOWL Allen Lazard tied a Liberty Bowl record with 10 catches and put Iowa State ahead with a remarkable 5-yard touchdown reception in the third quarter, and the Cyclones beat No. 19 Memphis, 21-20, on the Tigers’ home field. “This group is as resilient and as tough as any group I’ve ever been around,” Iowa State Coach Matt Campbell said. The Cyclones had the lead and third-and-goal at the 1 when David Montgomery fumbled as he was crossing the goal line. Jonathan Cook recovered in the end zone for a touchback with just over four minutes left. Iowa State had been attempting to become the first Football Bowl Subdivision team in recorded history to play an entire season without losing a fumble. Lazard ended up with 142 yards receiving in his final college game and was named the game’s most valuable player. His 10th touchdown catch of the year set Iowa State’s single-season record. Memphis had not lost on its home field all season. TAXSLAYER BOWL Keytaon Thompson, a highly praised freshman making his first start in place of the injured quarterback Nick Fitzgerald, ran for 147 yards and three touchdowns, helping No. 24 Mississippi State beat Louisville, 31-27, and Lamar Jackson, its Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback, in Jacksonville, Fla. Thompson completed 11 of 20 passes for 127 yards, with an interception. He was more effective as a runner, carrying on 27 of the team’s 55 running plays. Jackson, a junior and the 2016 Heisman winner, has yet to declare for the N.F.L. draft, but he is widely expected to turn pro. If he is leaving, he went out setting records. He ran 24 times for 158 yards and a touchdown, breaking the TaxSlayer Bowl record for most rushing yards by a quarterback. West Virginia’s Pat White set the previous mark with 145 yards in 2007. Jackson also broke his own program records for rushing yards and yards from scrimmage. He had the longest run of his career, a 75-yarder late in the second quarter.