 When Kristaps Porzingis felt a twinge in his left knee on Thursday night at Barclays Center in Brooklyn and walked off the court into the Knicks’ locker room, the team was sent into a familiar spasm of worry. The health of Porzingis, their 7-foot-3 franchise player, was again up in the air, leaving fans anxious for information. That he was upright and walking around later that evening seemed to be cause for relief. And on Friday, the Knicks would say only that Porzingis’s sore knee left him questionable to play on Saturday night against the Oklahoma City Thunder. That, in itself, did not sound particularly ominous, although the Knicks did not disclose whether Porzingis underwent any medical exam on Friday. Porzingis said after Thursday’s game — in which the Knicks beat the Nets — that he did not think his injury was serious. Still, in his two-plus seasons in New York, he has given the Knicks plenty of reasons to worry. Just last month, he sprained his ankle, with replays showing it turning nearly perpendicular on the court. It was a ghastly sight, but in the end Porzingis missed only two games. When he has been on the court this season, the 22-year-old Porzingis has generally had a major impact. The Knicks are 15-13 so far — by comparison, they were 31-51 in 2016-17 — and Porzingis has been averaging 25.5 points a game and is third in the N.B.A. in blocks. But there is a continuing concern about injuries. He has missed games periodically since joining the Knicks, sometimes with back and Achilles problems. He spent the summer focusing on strength training and putting on muscle to better prepare himself for the rigors of an 82-game season. And because this N.B.A. season has fewer back-to-back games on the schedule, the Knicks hope Porzingis will more or less stay upright. “It’s hard,” Porzingis said on Thursday night. “I don’t want to miss any games at all. Especially this year, every team is superphysical with me and trying to play hard defense with me.’’ He then added that he hoped his knee injury was a “little thing that happens’’ and that “I keep working on my body, strengthen ligaments and do what I can to avoid these kinds of things.” If Porzingis does not play on Saturday it would deprive the Knicks of a marquee moment. It will be Carmelo Anthony’s return to Madison Square Garden after leaving New York after seven seasons with the Knicks. Anthony has had a tough time in his first season in Oklahoma City, with the Thunder struggling to get above .500. Going into Friday night’s game against Philadelphia, Anthony was scoring 17.7 points per game — which would be the lowest figure of his career — while sharing the ball and spotlight with Russell Westbrook and Paul George. The Knicks, meanwhile, don’t seem to miss Anthony very much. When Porzingis is on the floor, they have a new star they can rely on. Then again, he has to stay on the floor.