 For the first half of their home opener on Saturday night, the new-look Knicks appeared to be onto something. They thundered to a 21-point lead against the Detroit Pistons that stood at 13 when the second quarter ended. The many Knicks fans in attendance had reason to feel just a tiny bit more optimistic about the challenging season ahead. That feeling didn’t last long. By game’s end, the new Knicks looked much like the old Knicks, the ones that featured Carmelo Anthony taking a lot of shots at the basket and team president Phil Jackson taking a lot of shots at Anthony. The final score was 111-107 Pistons, and the Knicks are now 0-2 on the season after dropping every preseason game as well. The Knicks’ opening loss to Oklahoma City, on the road, was not much of a gauge on where they stood, because the Thunder, whose stars now include Anthony, is a title contender. The Knicks, for sure, are not. Their game against the Pistons, who are part of the thick midsection of the Eastern Conference, was a better barometer. And what Saturday’s game showed was that over four quarters, the Knicks’ numerous flaws will be exposed. In the second half, they could not maintain their defensive focus and were also outmuscled by a more physical Detroit team. “When you got a 20-point lead,” Tim Hardaway Jr. said afterward, “don’t blow it.” But the Knicks did. And Hardaway himself struggled, missing 12 of his 16 shots on the way to scoring 14 points. Kristaps Porzingis led the Knicks with 33 points, and Enes Kanter had 17 points and 10 rebounds. The game was close as the fourth quarter ran down. With the Pistons trailing, 105-104, Tobias Harris spun around Porzingis to hit a short jumper with 45 seconds left to put Detroit in front. Andre Drummond blocked Porzingis’s layup attempt eight seconds later. Though the Knicks forced a missed shot from Drummond on the next possession, they couldn’t grab the loose ball. Instead, the Pistons corralled it and added two free throws to put the game away. If the loss was difficult for the Knicks, so was the news that their first-round draft pick, Frank Ntilikina, was again hurt. He missed Saturday’s game after spraining his ankle in practice Friday and has been injured most of his time with the team. Although that meant that Coach Jeff Hornacek didn’t have one of his supposed building blocks available, he also did not play another, Willy Hernangomez, tattooing him to the bench.