 To the Sports Editor: Re “Deliverance From 27,000 Feet,” Dec. 24: Thank you for publishing this article by John Branch. As a person referenced in the article, I write in response to comments posted online, such as: “… [H]ow do [climbers] witness unfolding distress and death and move on without helping? … I get why people climb mountains. But I don’t get how anyone summits Everest and comes away indifferent to another climber desperate for help.” These readers may be confused regarding the timeline or misunderstand what happens to mountaineers above 8,000 meters. Details of my experiences that day are published on my blog. In summary, my teammates and I left Camp 4 for the summit at 9:20 p.m. on May 20, 2016, more than an hour after the West Bengal team. I passed Subhas Paul, Goutam Ghosh, Sunita Hazra and their guides both on my way up and again on my way down — when they were still ascending above 28,000 feet on the Southeast Ridge. I was concerned that they were late, but it was not our place to talk with them about this. They were professionally guided and were making slow but upward progress. Communicating with them would have meant talking through our masks in unfamiliar languages. Furthermore, according to the article, their own guides had already asked them to turn around. Paresh Nath made that decision, but he was not assisted down adequately by his guides. I do not recall meeting him on the lines that day, but based on the timeline, I suspect we crossed paths at or just below the Balcony circa 11:30 a.m. If there had been any indication that he was in trouble then, certainly if he had asked for help, we would have assisted. When we returned to Camp 4, exhausted, we were ignorant of the tragedy unfolding above. Even if we had known, there was no way I or anyone else post-summit would have been physically able to mount a rescue that night. Fortunately, a remarkable man called Les Binns left Camp 4 for the summit while everyone from our team — and the West Bengal team’s guides — slept in tents, recovering from the biggest effort of our lives. As I understand it, Mr. Binns came across Ms. Hazra and Mr. Paul on the Triangular Face below the Balcony. He decided to abandon his plans and try to save these individuals, who were total strangers to him. He is a hero, and his actions embody the ethos that all good mountaineers aspire to. If the roles had been reversed, and I had been the one to come across them that night, I hope that I would have done the same. Unfortunately, Mr. Paul became separated from them on the descent. I was awakened before dawn the next morning by shouting in Hindi, a language I do not speak, from somewhere within camp. I assumed this was a guide calling out to a teammate. When the sun rose, however, we were horrified to see that the calls were coming from an ice cliff nearby: This was Subhas Paul, calling out to his guides for assistance. They ignored him, but volunteers from our expedition and others climbed the face, resuscitated him, dragged him bodily back to his tent, rendered medical aid and exhorted his guides to extricate him. Heartbreakingly, he died on the way down. The facts are tragic: A team of well-intentioned people from modest means dedicated themselves to a grand goal. Three paid the ultimate price, shattering their families. The other barely survived. In retrospect, they were underprepared and poorly supported, and they did not exercise their best judgment in very challenging circumstances. Their actions, and the subsequent body recoveries, put others’ lives in jeopardy. And yet those of us who climbed beside them are heartbroken, not angry. “Indifferent to another climber desperate for help?” Not the climbers I met. Mountaineering is the ultimate team pursuit, and above 8,000 meters everyone should be on the same team. Although we could have done nothing more, I remain heartbroken. As a climber, a physician, a husband and a father, I am devastated. These were strangers, but they were human beings — eloquently illuminated in Mr. Branch’s article. Paul Pottinger Seattle To the Sports Editor: Every death leaves pain in its wake. The New York Times article “Deliverance From 27,000 Feet” revealed unimaginable pain endured by the families of Indian mountaineers who perished on Mount Everest in May 2016. The heartbreaking stories don’t get lighter as more stories of pain are written every climbing season. I was struck by the author’s depiction of the Sherpas, the high-altitude mountain guides, many of whom are ethnically Sherpa. As a Sherpa myself, I know they do not abandon their clients; they try to return them safely to their families. It appears that Sherpas are expected to under any circumstance take the client to the summit without any question, even when these experienced guides make clients aware of the risks involved. It appears here that the Sherpas would do anything, if the price is right or the right amount is dangled, and beer is promised. This depiction of the Sherpas, mountaineer or not, follows a long literary tradition that is foreign to this native. Pasang Yangjee Sherpa Seattle The writer is a Sherpa anthropologist based at the University of Washington. To the Sports Editor: As a woman who stood at the top of Everest on May 23, 2017, I feel compelled to comment. This story is tragic, but it will repeat and repeat and repeat. ... These Indian climbers were unprepared and should not have been on that mountain. More important, they did not listen to their guides, who implored them to turn around, the root of most tragedies on Everest. This 2017 season, a 20-year-old Sherpa guide lost 10 fingers to frostbite and almost died because his client (who had been kicked off his team because of poor climbing) refused to turn around. The Sherpa guide stayed with his client, yet the client was hailed as a hero when he returned to Pakistan because he had summited. This sickens me. Ellen Gallant Jackson, Wyo.