 Cristiano Ronaldo scored a stunning overhead kick for his second goal of the night to help Real Madrid beat 10-man Juventus, 3-0, in the first leg of their Champions League quarterfinal on Tuesday in Turin, Italy. Ronaldo’s first goal came in the third minute and was helped by Juventus’ defensive lapses, but his second was pure mastery with his overhead kick bringing the crowd to its feet. And Real Madrid Coach Zinedine Zidane, himself considered one of the best players in history, clutched his head in amazement. “Cristiano is simply a different player than all the others,” Zidane said. “He shows that every time. He always has a great desire to do great things in the Champions League, he never gets tired of doing what he does.” He added: “I’m the coach but also a fan. That’s why I put my hands on my head.” In the process, Ronaldo became the first player in Champions League history to score in 10 successive matches. He also set up Real’s third score, for Marcelo, shortly after Juventus forward Paulo Dybala had been sent off following a second yellow card. Juventus was out for revenge after losing the final, 4-1, to Real last year. But Ronaldo, who has scored in every Champions League match this season, quickly made that a difficult task, scoring less than three minutes in. The loss now puts Juventus in a near-impossible task to turn the quarterfinal around against Real, the two-time defending champions, in the return leg on April 11. BAYERN 2, SEVILLA 1 Bayern Munich needed a couple of lucky bounces to prevent Sevilla from pulling off another Champions League upset. After being outplayed by the hosts early on and conceding a 32nd-minute opener by Pablo Sarabia, visiting Bayern came from behind to beat Sevilla in the first leg of their quarterfinal on an own goal by Jesus Navas and a second-half header by Thiago Alcantara. Both times the ball deflected off a defender to take Sevilla goalkeeper David Soria out of play. Bayern now only needs a draw in the second leg in Munich next week to reach the semifinals for the fifth time in six seasons. Sevilla, playing in the last eight for the first time in 60 years after overcoming heavily favored Manchester United in the previous round, has never made it to the semifinals in the Champions League. Sevilla is trying to establish itself as a contender in the Champions League after dominating the second-tier Europa League in recent years, having won the competition three times in four seasons. The Spanish club was eliminated by Leicester in the round of 16 last year. Bayern, a five-time European champion, has made it to the last eight nine times in 10 seasons. It arrived for Tuesday’s game coming off a 6-0 rout of Borussia Dortmund in the Bundesliga, a competition it looks set to win for the sixth consecutive time.