 The sale of the Carolina Panthers appears to be near. David Tepper, the hedge-fund billionaire whom many N.F.L. owners pointed to as the preferred choice to buy the team, will not increase his offer to meet the current asking price of $2.5 billion, which makes it unlikely that he will win the ongoing auction for the club, according to two people with knowledge of his interest in the team. Tepper’s decision comes a few weeks after Michael Rubin, the owner of the online retailing giant Fanatics, bowed out. Both men could return to the bargaining table if Richardson decided to accept a lower price. Their apparent departures narrow the field to two for membership in the most exclusive and expensive owners club in North American sports: Ben Navarro, who owns Sherman Financial Group, an investment firm; and Alan Kestenbaum, the chief executive of Bedrock Industries, which owns and operates metal and mining companies. According to several people familiar with the auction, Navarro is believed to have offered $2.6 billion, though it is unclear whether he needs the help of other investors to cover that price. N.F.L. owners were told at their annual meeting last month that a winning bid could be selected by the end of April. Assuming the N.F.L. finds no red flags when it performs due diligence on the winning bidder, the owners could vote on the sale of the team at their next meeting, in Atlanta in late May. At least 24 owners must approve any team transactions. Steve Greenberg, who is running the auction for the current Panthers owner, Jerry Richardson, had no comment. The sale of the Panthers is being widely watched in the league because the final price will become a benchmark for other team sales. Sports bankers said the Denver Broncos, New Orleans Saints and Tennessee Titans could change hands in the next few years. The patriarchs of each of those teams has died in recent years or are in failing health. Richardson, the Panthers’s founder and owner, said he would sell the team in December, shortly after an article in Sports Illustrated linked him to allegations of sexual harassment. The N.F.L. is investigating those allegations. Richardson was initially seeking at least $3 billion for his team, but trimmed his expectations when no potential buyers emerged at that price. Even at $2.5 billion, the Panthers would set a record for the highest-priced sale for any team, and nearly a billion dollars more than the Buffalo Bills, who sold for a record $1.4 billion in 2014. That price was too much for Tepper and Rubin, who bid between $2 billion and $2.2 billion for the team, according to several people with knowledge of their offers. Last month, Houston Texans owner Bob McNair said that while he had not met Navarro, he was impressed by his philanthropy. Three other owners, though, expressed concerns about Navarro’s stake in a financial service company that issues credit cards to credit-challenged customers, and is one of the nation’s largest issuers of Mastercard and Visa branded cards. Sherman Financial also owns about half of a joint venture with the Chedraui family in Mexico that provides similar lending services. The company, Grupo Consupago, has a subsidiary, Consubanco, which offers loans to government employees and pensioners. A spokeswoman for Sherman Financial said Mexico’s government regulates Consubanco and limits interest rates. Navarro declined to discuss the auction for the Panthers, citing a confidentiality agreement. Last month, several owners said that Tepper was the best choice to take over the club. With a net worth of about $11 billion, he has enough money to buy the team without the help of other investors. He also owns a minority stake in the Pittsburgh Steelers, which means the N.F.L. has already approved him. Tepper would have to sell his shares in the Steelers if he won the bid for the Panthers. “If he’s good enough for Art Rooney, he’s good enough for me,” one owner said, referring to the owner of the Steelers. In the near term, the team will stay in Charlotte. But there are likely to be few restrictions to prevent a buyer from moving the team. The team owns the stadium, and the city has spent tens of millions of dollars on renovations. The team must play there through June, 2019, or pay a penalty to break the agreement. If the Panthers leave after that date, the city could buy the stadium for $1 or the team could pay the remaining debt on the city’s investment.