 SEATTLE — Matt Ryan threw two touchdown passes, Adrian Clayborn returned a fumble for a score and the Atlanta Falcons held off a late rally to beat the Seattle Seahawks, 34-31, on Monday night. Atlanta stayed in the hunt for an N.F.C. playoff spot thanks to its second consecutive victory and handed Seattle a second straight home loss. Ryan threw touchdown passes to Mohamed Sanu and Levine Toilolo, while Tevin Coleman added a 1-yard touchdown run on Atlanta’s opening possession. But it was Clayborn’s fumble return that helped break the game open early in the second quarter, giving Atlanta a 21-7 lead. Takk McKinley and Courtney Upshaw forced the fumble as they crushed into Seattle quarterback Russell Wilson, and Clayborn, who had six sacks last week, picked the ball up and ran it 10 yards for the score. Down by 11 points, Seattle started to put together a late rally. Wilson hit Doug Baldwin on a 29-yard touchdown pass with three minutes remaining, and Seattle got in range for a long field goal attempt by Blair Walsh in the closing minutes, but Walsh’s 52-yard attempt with two seconds left came up short and Atlanta escaped with the victory. Wilson again provided nearly the entirety of Seattle’s offense, throwing for 258 yards and two touchdowns, and running for another 86 yards and a score. But beyond Wilson it was an awful night for the Seahawks, filled with more injuries and questionable decisions by Coach Pete Carroll. He called for a fake field goal late in the first half rather than attempting a 35-yard kick and made a questionable challenge in the fourth quarter that didn’t go his way, leaving Seattle with just one timeout. That lack of timeouts came back to haunt Seattle on the final drive when seconds ticked away. Rather than running one more play, Walsh was sent out to attempt the 52-yard kick, despite his longest successful field goal of the season being from 49 yards out. The conclusion only amplified Carroll’s baffling decision at the end of the first half, when Seattle ran a fake field goal rather than having Walsh attempt a 35-yarder that would have pulled Seattle within 24-20. Holder Jon Ryan completed his shovel pass to Luke Willson on the fake, but Grady Jarrett of the Falcons had read the play well and tackled Willson for a 4-yard loss. Seattle played a game without cornerback Richard Sherman for the first time since the end of the 2010 season. His streak of 99 consecutive starts in the regular season ended because of a torn Achilles’ tendon suffered against Arizona. The Seahawks were also without safety Kam Chancellor because of a neck injury, leaving their vaunted secondary with several new faces, a situation that was exacerbated when Shaquill Griffin left the game to be evaluated for a potential concussion. Ryan was more than happy to pick on a defense without those anchors. He was 19 of 27 passing for 195 yards and rarely faced pressure. Seattle had one sack, and the Falcons went 9 of 14 on third-down conversions.