 PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — Cometh the hour, cometh the snowboarder. Shaun White, the snowboarding legend, stood at the top of the halfpipe for the final run of the competition. After holding the early lead, he had slipped to second behind his much younger rival, Ayumu Hirano of Japan. Now he had to put up a spectacular run to claim his third career gold medal. Landing a 1440 was not likely to be enough. White would have to match Hirano with back-to-back 1440s. And darned if he did not do it. White soared high above the pipe, ran off a run of staggeringly difficult tricks and landed them all. He opened up with a frontside double cork 1440 followed by a cab double cork 1440. White said he had never landed the combination before, not even in practice. The result, a 97.75, won him his third gold medal. After learning that he had won, White howled in victory, hurled his board, then dropped to his knees in tears. When he embraced his mother, Cathy, the tears flowed even more heavily. “I knew I did a great ride, and I was proud of that, and I could walk away with my head high, but when they announced my score and I’d won, it crippled me,” White said. “I was so overwhelmed with happiness, I’ve been through so much to get here.” He continued: “I had this crazy injury in New Zealand where I busted my face open. I actually did the same trick that injured me here in the halfpipe today. So there were a lot of obstacles to overcome and now it’s all worth it.” White had been disappointed to finish only fourth in the halfpipe in 2014, after golds in the previous two Olympics. And at 31, he showed he still has what it takes to be on top of the snowboarding world, leaving Hirano, 19, and Scotty James of Australia, 23, behind in the silver and bronze positions. On his first run, he delivered a classic Shaun White routine, the kind fans have been seeing for a decade. The elevation, the rotations and the landings were there, and he scored a 94.25. But with the rise of his younger contenders and the increasing dazzle and danger of the sport, the feeling was there that it was not quite good enough for a gold. Sure enough, young Hirano surpassed him on his second run, popping back-to-back 1440s. When White fell on Run 2, it set up the classic finale. “Honestly it’s one of the most challenging runs I’ve ever done,” White said of Run 3. “I didn’t even link the combination, the 14 to 14 until I got here, today, this morning. So, honestly, I’m just so happy with my performance. I’m proud of the other riders for pushing me this whole time.” Next, White wants to try the 2020 Summer Olympics, as a skateboarder. He says 2022 is also on his radar. Coincidentally, White’s gold medal was the 100th for the United States in the Winter Games. Few have been as dramatic. Here’s how Shaun White won the gold medal: With the American Chase Josey in the lead at 87.75, it’s time for the first of the Big 3, the high-flying Ayumu Hirano of Japan. But Hirano slips on landing his second big jump. He’ll have to wait for a later run to go for his medal. Next up was the brash Scotty James of Australia, a two-time world champion who at 23 is more than ready to knock off the veteran White. He puts together a controlled run that is totally clean. The score is the best of the round, 92. Over to you, Shaun. We’ve been watching Shaun White deliver great performances for a decade, and on the Olympic stage, he comes through. Great elevation, a dizzying number of rotations and clean landings. White takes the lead with a 94.25 and is in the driver’s seat for the gold after one run. White was clearly happy with the run, throwing his helmet in celebration. White began with a frontside 1440 and included a 1260 as well. A bad spill in the second run for the 16-year-old Yuto Totsuka of Japan. He landed hard of the lip of the pipe and shot down its seven-meter height. Totsuka stayed down and, after being attended to by medical personnel, was taken off the halfpipe on a sled. The crowd, which includes many Japanese supporters, was stunned into silence. Later, a Japanese team spokesman said Totsuka was taken to the hospital with an injured hip, but he didn’t suffer any head or neck trauma. Read more on danger in the sport here. Gold won’t come easily for Shaun White, who has slipped behind Hirano. He needed to outdo his first routine, but he was a little ragged on some early landings, and then fell. If he’s going to win gold, he’ll have to do it on his last run, which will be the final run of the competition. The event comes to a dramatic conclusion with the three medalists, Ayumu Hirano, Shaun White and Scotty James, taking the last three runs. Hirano went first, trying to improve his leading 95.25 that featured back-to-back 1440s. But he fell and could not. Scotty James also fell on his last run and will win the bronze medal. So, it’s time for Shaun White. Will it be silver, or gold?