 LONDON — The multibillion dollar offer to FIFA from a group of investors for a new, 24-team World Cup for clubs is worth far more than soccer’s governing body’s vision for the value of the event, according to an internal document obtained by The New York Times. The offer, first reported by The Times on Monday, values each edition of the proposed quadrennial tournament at $3 billion, which goes way beyond the amounts FIFA’s leadership group presented to officials in a 22-page briefing document distributed to executive board members last month. In total the international consortium, which includes Japanese conglomerate SoftBank and other investors from Asia and the Middle East whose identities have yet to be revealed, has put forward a $25 billion offer for three editions of the club tournament and rights to a new competitive global league for national teams. “The objective would be to reach global gross revenue projections of USD 650 m to USD 1 billion, which would be required to make it a successful project,” the FIFA documents states in its final paragraph. FIFA board members rejected a request from President Gianni Infantino to allow him to quickly conclude a deal with the outside consortium, after Infantino, citing a nondisclosure agreement, refused to reveal the identities of those backing the offer. He said a decision needed to be made within two months. The Financial Times first reported SoftBank was among the investors group. Officials with the company declined to comment. Saudi Arabia is the largest investor in its $100 billion Vision Fund. The offer has unsettled the soccer world. Executives with Europe’s top clubs, who would provide much of the star quality and attract by far the most interest, are angry about what they perceive as a lack of consultation from FIFA. Their regional governing body, UEFA, was the first to reject Infantino’s pleas to forge and conclude the agreement quickly. African officials, too, called for a more cautious approach to negotiations, which if successful, would be the first time FIFA sold control of its events to an investment fund. FIFA provided no indication to its board that Infantino had entered the talks before last month’s meeting in Bogotá, Colombia. Instead, they were provided with the briefing document outlining the organization’s plans for an expanded Club World Cup. That event would replace a largely insignificant annual eight-team tournament played in December. Details of the offer were only explained verbally, according to people familiar with the meeting. Infantino wants the first tournament to be played in June or July 2021. Those opposed to the plans say a new tournament could pose health risks to the game’s top players, who already are burdened in some seasons with as many as 80 games. Others privately question if the Club World Cup could diminish the value of UEFA’s hugely successful Champions League, a competition that generates billions of dollars in global broadcast and sponsorship sales. Mindful of the opposition, FIFA told members that the 24-team event played over 18 days would actually reduce fixture congestion because it will be played only every four years instead of annually. It would also replace the unpopular Confederations Cup, a national team event played a year before the World Cup. The document says the changes would result in a 35 percent reduction in inter-confederation games played from 48 to 31 over a four year cycle. Still, the expansion would likely mean more games for the world’s top talent. Lionel Messi has played in just two Club World Cup matches the past six years. Just one European team currently plays in the Club World Cup. Under one proposed format, Europe would provide 12 teams, far more than any other continent. FIFA had considered seven different formats, ranging from a 12-team tournament to one with as many as 32. To sweeten the deal to clubs, FIFA proposes giving participants 75 percent of the tournament’s revenues, which would be $2.25 billion if the current offer is accepted. That would largely serve to line the pockets of the richest clubs. FIFA would also provide leagues and nonparticipating clubs with 5 percent of revenue, which it says is sufficient “to maintain the competitive balance at club level and to produce better champions for future editions,” according to the document. The commercial strategy for the tournament fits neatly with recent developments in China, which has been on a major push to promote soccer, and switch from one of the sport’s also-rans into a major player. China has also been a major investor in FIFA through a slew of recent sponsorships. Among the hosting requirements for FIFA are countries that are prepared to pay a fee, that have high growth potential for the sport and for their own top clubs. Saudi officials have also expressed interest in hosting the tournament, which would fit ambitious plans to grow the country’s leisure sector. Infantino visited late last year with the king of Saudi Arabia and the country’s hard-charging crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, who is leading the reform efforts in that country. Further major changes may also be ahead for the World Cup. FIFA confirmed on Thursday it is considering bringing forward plans to expand that tournament from its current 32 team format to 48, four years earlier than planned. Such move may require staging the event beyond the borders of Qatar, a gas-rich emirate that is smaller than Connecticut. Clouding matters is an ongoing bitter regional dispute in which Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain have cut diplomatic ties with Qatar. The president of Qatar’s soccer association attended yesterday’s meeting in Buenos Aires, where Infantino was also present.