 Major League Baseball said on Thursday it was looking into allegations that Minnesota Twins third baseman Miguel Sano assaulted a woman who worked as a photographer at the team’s events. The woman, Betsy Bissen, wrote on Twitter that Sano had grabbed her and had repeatedly tried to kiss her at an autograph event at a mall in 2015 before she pulled away from him. “No, he didn’t rape me, but he sure did assault me,” Bissen wrote. Sano, 24, strongly disputed Bissen’s account. “I unequivocally deny the allegation made against me today — it never happened,” Sano said in a statement. Under baseball’s domestic violence policy, Sano could be subject to suspension. Commissioner Rob Manfred has broad powers to discipline players and his decision to do so is not dependent on courtroom convictions or even police action. Earlier this year, catcher Derek Norris was suspended for the final month of the season after his former fiancée accused Norris on social media of physical and verbal abuse. “We are aware of today’s allegations and are now in the process of looking into the matter,” Pat Courtney, a league spokesman, said of the accusations against Sano. Bissen wrote on Twitter that the wave of accusations of sexual assault that has swept the country in recent months were reminders of what she said Sano put her through and that it had spurred her to share her story publicly. She described how flirting had turned to Sano’s grabbing her by the wrist and trying to kiss her. Bissen said it took 10 minutes for Sano, who is 6 feet 4 inches and 260 pounds, to let her go even as she struggled to break free. “When I said no, it should have been the end of it,” Bissen wrote. “He should have respected that and stopped. Instead, he hurt me and kept going.” Bissen said the episode occurred in October 2015, during Sano’s first season with the Twins. He was named an All-Star last season, and he hit 28 home runs and recorded a .859 on-base-plus-slugging percentage before his season was cut short by a leg injury on Aug. 18. The injury, which occurred when he fouled a ball off his leg, ultimately required surgery last month to insert a titanium rod in his left shin. He is expected to be ready for the start of next season.