 After less than an hour of deliberation Thursday evening, a jury ruled in favor of Eugenie Bouchard in her lawsuit against the United States Tennis Association, finding that the organization’s negligence helped lead to her fall in a trainers’ room at the United States Open in 2015. Bouchard slipped on a cleaning substance that had been applied to the room’s tile floor and sustained a concussion that forced her to withdraw from the tournament. She did not play a complete match for the rest of that season. She is seeking damages for her physical and emotional suffering in the lawsuit, which lasted nearly two and a half years, as well as lost earnings on and off the court. In some relief to the U.S.T.A., the jury found that Bouchard was responsible for 25 percent of the total negligence. The U.S.T.A., then, will only have to pay 75 percent of the damages owed to Bouchard. “When you get 75 percent or better, you can’t ever complain about that,” Benedict Morelli, Bouchard’s lawyer, told reporters after the decision. The damages phase of the trial will begin Friday at the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York to determine how much the injury cost Bouchard. Morelli said he did not yet have an exact figure in mind, but he indicated that he expected to request millions of dollars in damages, to recoup “all the different revenue that she lost.” The liability phase of the trial focused strictly on the cause of Bouchard’s injury, rather than its effects. She fell out of the top 100 of the WTA singles rankings for the first time in nearly five years last month; her current ranking is 116th. Though she returned to the tour full-time at the beginning of the 2016 season, she has not progressed past the third round in any of the nine Grand Slam events since she sustained the concussion. Bouchard, however, had struggled before the accident, as well. In the months leading up to the 2015 Open, her ranking slid from No. 6 to 25th, and she had won just three of her previous 18 matches leading up to the Open. Morelli suggested to reporters that he would dismiss that slide as “a sophomore slump” in the trial’s next phase. Her breakout year was in 2014, when she reached the final at Wimbledon and her ranking climbed to No. 7. After testimony from Bouchard, the U.S. Open tournament director David Brewer and three locker room attendants on the first two days of the trial, the lone witness on Thursday was Kristy Stahr, who was a WTA trainer during the 2015 tournament in Queens. Bouchard said in court that she had told Stahr that she intended to take an ice bath after her post-match obligations the night of her fall, but all of the WTA trainers had left for the night before Bouchard returned to the room. Players must pass through the trainers’ room at the U.S. Open to reach the ice baths. “We just assumed that she had left,” Stahr said. Stahr, the lone witness called by the defense, refuted assertions from Bouchard’s testimony that trainers “encourage” players to enter the room without a trainer present. “Absolutely not,” Stahr said. Under cross-examination by Adam Deutsch, a lawyer for Bouchard, Stahr conceded that players often enter the room by themselves to complete certain simple tasks, such as filling a bag with ice. Another trainer, Eva Scheumann, sent an email to Bouchard telling her that trainers had left for the night but could “turn back” if she still needed anything. Deutsch contended that “turn back” meant that the trainers were aware that Bouchard was still at the tournament when the cleaning substance was applied. The U.S.T.A. agreed during the trial that trainers were supposed to begin cleaning the floors only after all players had left for the night. The U.S.T.A.’s chief locker room attendant, Karen Owens, said that trainers saying “good night” for the evening indicated to her that all players had left, and that the floor could be cleaned. “She didn’t abide by the rules,” Morelli said of Owens in his closing argument. “And, therefore, the accident happened.” Alan Kaminsky, a lawyer for the U.S.T.A., representing the tennis association, said in his closing argument that the same practices had been followed on that night as on any other. “If we were negligent that day, we were negligent every day for 30 years,” Kaminsky said. “The U.S.T.A. doesn’t have to be perfect; we just have to be reasonable.” Kaminsky seemed open to a ruling of shared negligence between the U.S.T.A. and Bouchard in his closing remarks, saying that he thought she bore a “majority” of responsibility.