 PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — Eight years ago at the Vancouver Winter Olympics, four racers on the United States ski team combined to win eight medals in the 10 Alpine events, including two golds. The American medal haul, led by Bode Miller, was twice the amount of any other nation. At the time, the team’s rallying cry was “Best in the World.” The European ski racing establishment occasionally mocked that mission statement. But not in 2010. The Americans were a force. Four years later at the Sochi Games, five Alpine athletes from the United States team — three men and two women — won five medals. There were two American Olympic champions. At the Pyeongchang Olympics, American skiers combined to win a gold, a silver and a bronze, and all of it stemmed from the efforts of only two racers. Mikaela Shiffrin won the women’s giant slalom and was second in the Alpine combined. Lindsey Vonn claimed a bronze in the downhill.  Vonn, 33, now expects to retire from the sport after the next World Cup season. Asked to look ahead to the 2022 Beijing Olympics, the oft-injured Vonn smiled on Thursday and said, “My body can’t take four more years.” That leaves the 22-year-old Shiffrin, who could compete in two or three more Winter Olympics. Shiffrin may yet be a transcendent talent who sets a host of Olympic medal records, but is anyone else in the American ski racing community going to rise up and give her a hand? In the last two weeks here, besides Vonn and Shiffrin, there were women on the United States team who showed promise. In the women’s downhill, Alice McKennis was fifth and Breezy Johnson was seventh. Over all, if you add their teammates Laurenne Ross and Alice Merryweather, there were seven top 20 finishes at the Pyeongchang Olympics by American women not named Vonn or Shiffrin. And another top woman on the United States team, Jacqueline Wiles, missed these Winter Games when she was injured in a heartbreaking crash on the final weekend of racing before the 2018 Olympics were to start. Wiles was third in a World Cup downhill late last month. But on the men’s side, things were more bleak. Perhaps symbolically, Ted Ligety, one of three Americans to win two Alpine gold medals, watched his Olympic career probably come to a close with a disappointing 15th in his signature event, the giant slalom. Days earlier, Ligety had the highest finish by an American man at the Pyeongchang Games when he was fifth in the Alpine combined. The American men’s team was without one of its top performers in Travis Ganong, who is injured. The 36-year-old veteran Steven Nyman was also sidelined. Still, Ligety’s fifth place was the only top 10 result by an American man here. That’s a long way from the eight medals the Olympic men’s team won at the 2010 Vancouver Games. “We don’t have all cylinders firing, but that doesn’t mean we can’t turn it around in a two- to four-year cycle,” said Tiger Shaw, the chief executive of U.S. Ski and Snowboard, the umbrella group overseeing the ski team. “We have a lot of young talent. I think you need to look at potential, and when I look at the potential, I’m not worried.” It is true that there were flashes of an improved future for the American men. Ryan Cochran-Siegle, who is the son of the 1972 American Olympic gold medalist Barbara Cochran, had the third fastest time in the field in the second run of the giant slalom. Cochran-Siegle was participating in his first Olympics, and finished 11th, but even one blistering run on a big stage can propel a budding career. Cochran-Siegle was also 14th in the super-G. Bryce Bennett, another Olympic rookie and an intriguing prospect because he is 6 feet 7 inches, was 16th in the downhill and 17th in the Alpine combined. Bennett and Cochran-Siegle are each 25 years old. Buried for now deep on the United States ski team’s roster are other American men with impressive junior racing pedigrees who were simply too untested on the World Cup level to qualify for the trip to Pyeongchang. Included in that group is River Radamus, the son of two high-level, Colorado-based, ski racing coaches. Radamus, 19, has been near the top of the overall standings on what amounts to ski racing’s minor league circuit for most of this winter. In 2017, at the Youth Olympic Games, Radamus won three races, which was unprecedented at the event. Two years older than Radamus is his teammate Sam Morse, who won the downhill at the junior world championships last year (Merryweather won the women’s downhill). Morse, raised in Maine, not only believes better days are coming for the American men, he believes the new wave of racers will introduce pioneering techniques because it is the first generation to have spent its entire upbringing using shaped skis, which, because of their parabolic silhouettes, are easier to turn. “It’s a different style coming up, more arcing of turns and less sliding,” Morse said late last year. Morse added: “And when we come up, it won’t just be one or two fast guys but a whole squad.” If so, Shiffrin will appreciate the reinforcements.