 The league-leading Tampa Bay Lightning’s top stars will be on full display when the city hosts N.H.L. All-Star Weekend later this month. Top scorer Nikita Kucherov, goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy and defenseman Victor Hedman will join captain Steven Stamkos for the skills competition and 3-on-3 tournament Jan. 27-28 in Tampa, Fla. Kucherov has the most points in the league and Vasilevskiy the most victories in leading the Lightning to an N.H.L.-best 65 points so far this season. With four players on the Atlantic Division team, Tampa Bay has the most representation for the showcase event. The Los Angeles Kings will send three players to Tampa: center Anze Kopitar, defenseman Drew Doughty and goalie Jonathan Quick. The league announced the full All-Star rosters on Wednesday as selected by the N.H.L.’s hockey operations department. Sidney Crosby and Kris Letang of the defending Stanley Cup-champion Pittsburgh Penguins were added to the Metropolitan Division team that also includes Washington Capitals winger Alex Ovechkin and goalie Braden Holtby. Rangers goalie Henrik Lundqvist was selected to his fourth All-Star Weekend. The surprise Vegas Golden Knights got two All-Stars: goalie Marc-Andre Fleury and winger James Neal. The reigning Hart Trophy winner Connor McDavid of the Edmonton Oilers is also on the Pacific Division roster. All 31 teams must have at least one representative with the divisional teams limited to six forwards, three defensemen and two goalies. Atlantic Division F Aleksander Barkov, Florida F Jack Eichel, Buffalo F Nikita Kucherov, Tampa Bay F Brad Marchand, Boston F Auston Matthews, Toronto F x-Steven Stamkos, Tampa Bay D Mike Green, Detroit D Victor Hedman, Tampa Bay D Erik Karlsson, Ottawa G Carey Price, Montreal G Andrei Vasilevskiy, Tampa Bay Coach: Jon Cooper, Tampa Bay Metropolitan Division F Josh Bailey, Islanders F Sidney Crosby, Pittsburgh F Claude Giroux, Philadelphia F Taylor Hall, Devils F x-Alex Ovechkin, Washington F John Tavares, Islanders D Noah Hanifin, Carolina D Seth Jones, Columbus D Kris Letang, Pittsburgh G Braden Holtby, Washington G Henrik Lundqvist, Rangers Coach: Barry Trotz, Washington Central Division F Patrick Kane, Chicago F Nathan MacKinnon, Colorado F Brayden Schenn, St. Louis F Tyler Seguin, Dallas F Eric Staal, Minnesota F Blake Wheeler, Winnipeg D John Klingberg, Dallas D Alex Pietrangelo, St. Louis D x-P.K. Subban, Nashville G Connor Hellebuyck, Winnipeg G Pekka Rinne, Nashville Coach: Peter Laviolette, Nashville Pacific Division F Brock Boeser, Vancouver F Johnny Gaudreau, Calgary F Anze Kopitar, Los Angeles F x-Connor McDavid, Edmonton F James Neal, Vegas F Rickard Rakell, Anaheim D Brent Burns, San Jose D Drew Doughty, Los Angeles D Oliver Ekman-Larsson, Arizona G Marc-Andre Fleury, Vegas G Jonathan Quick, Los Angeles Coach: Gerard Gallant, Vegas x-Fan-elected captain