 Geoffrey Kamworor of Kenya glanced over his shoulder in the final stretch of the New York City Marathon on Sunday, keeping an eye on his countryman Wilson Kipsang just a few strides behind. Kamworor could see his opponent gaining on him in the television screens set up around the finish line. Was Kipsang waiting to strike, ready to unleash one last burst to catch Kamworor in Central Park? Kipsang, it turned out, couldn’t close the gap. He was a few seconds too slow on this day. Kamworor, a two-time world champion in the half-marathon, established his bona fides at 26.2 miles on the streets of New York on Sunday, holding off Kipsang and the rest of the men’s field in 2 hours 10 minutes 53 seconds. Upon crossing the finish line, he dropped down to kiss the pavement. “I knew that he was behind me and I was just focusing on the finish line,” Kamworor said after the race. “When I looked at the camera, I saw someone was coming and it was Wilson. I had to do my best to make sure that I won. It worked.” Kipsang, who won the New York City Marathon in 2014, finished second in 2:10:56, and Ethiopia’s Lelisa Desisa, a two-time Boston Marathon winner, was third in 2:11:32. It was a breakthrough performance at 26.2 miles for Kamworor, 24. He’s the 14th Kenyan to win the men’s race here. He had been here before, in 2015, but fell to second behind Stanley Biwott, although Kamworor finished five seconds faster than he did on Sunday. Kamworor was set to run in last year’s race through the five boroughs, but dropped out after sustaining a leg injury. Just coming back and finishing this year wouldn’t be enough for Kamworor, though. “It was a realistic goal to win this race because he was second two years ago and he has matured as an athlete and as a person,” one of his trainers, Valentijn Trouw, said in an interview. “He was ready for this victory.” Kamworor has spent the past three months intensively training in Kaptagat, a village in Kenya, and arrived in New York on Wednesday. The race’s beginning was slow and tactical, and the leader of the pack, the 2016 winner Ghirmay Ghebreslassie, reached the halfway point in 1:06:09. With big-name runners lurking toward the back of the lead group early on, no one seemed to want to make his push too early. By the time the lead pack entered Central Park, Ghebreslassie was nowhere in sight, having dropped out of the race at Mile 19. His performance last year was the third-fastest time ever recorded on New York’s challenging course, but he faded on Sunday. Abdi Abdirahman of the United States was able to overcome a fall at the two-and-a-half-mile mark to finish seventh — the highest finish by an American in Sunday’s men’s race. “I don’t know what happened,” Abdirahman said. “Someone tripped me from the back, but I don’t know who it was. I just remember hitting the ground so hard and I just lay there for a few seconds. It did affect me. My ankle was so painful. I was struggling until the 15 or 16 mile with pain in my ankle and my knees.” Meb Keflezighi, 42, of the United States finished 11th. It was Keflezighi’s 26th and final race, his 11th New York City Marathon. He won here in 2009 and won the Boston Marathon in 2014. Leading up to the race, Keflezighi had joked that he just wanted to finish, but he had a personal goal of finishing in the top 10. He has finished in the top 10 in eight of his New York City Marathons. “I am blessed,” Keflezighi said after the race. “God gave me more than I could ever handle. To be able to start here and finish here is an incredible ride.” In a post-race interview, Kipsang jokingly maintained that had the race been 27 miles, he would have been able to catch Kamworor, who added some strides to his race by taking the final few turns wider than necessary. After crossing the finish line as rain fell lightly, Kamworor embraced Eliud Kipchoge, his training partner and the 2016 Olympic gold medalist, and trotted off with the Kenyan flag wrapped around his shoulders.