 Lance Armstrong agreed on Thursday to pay $5 million to settle claims that he defrauded the federal government by using performance-enhancing drugs when the United States Postal Service sponsored his cycling team. The settlement ended years of legal wrangling between Armstrong and the government over whether the Postal Service had actually sustained harm because of Armstrong’s doping. After years of vehement denials, Armstrong admitted in 2013 that he had used banned substances while winning a record seven Tour de France titles from 1999 to 2005. He wore a Postal Service jersey during the first six of those victories, but he was stripped of all his Tour titles in 2012 after an investigation by the United States Anti-Doping Agency determined that he and many of his teammates had been doping. “We’ve had exactly the same view of this case forever, which was that it was a bogus case because the Postal Service was never harmed,” Elliot Peters, Armstrong’s lead lawyer, said in a telephone interview. He added that the Postal Service had boasted that sponsoring Armstrong’s cycling team for $32.3 million was a marketing boon. That was the value of the second deal between the Postal Service and the team. That contract, unlike its predecessor, contained an antidoping clause. If he had lost in court, Armstrong faced the possibility of paying treble damages under the terms of the False Claims Act, which is aimed at recovering government money obtained by fraud. The government could have demanded nearly $100 million. The settlement averted a trial scheduled to begin with jury selection in about two weeks in Federal District Court in Washington. “I am particularly glad to have made peace with the Postal Service,” Armstrong said in a statement issued by Peters’s law firm. “While I believe that their lawsuit against me was without merit and unfair, I have since 2013 tried to take full responsibility for my mistakes, and make amends wherever possible. I rode my heart out for the Postal cycling team, and was always especially proud to wear the red, white and blue eagle on my chest when competing in the Tour de France. Those memories are very real and mean a lot to me.” The prospect of losing his fortune had loomed over Armstrong, 46, since the case was filed in 2010. It was the most daunting of the legal woes that have dogged him since he confessed. A statement from Peters’s law firm said the settlement had ended “all litigation against Armstrong related to his 2013 admission that during his career as a professional cyclist he had used performance-enhancing substances.” Floyd Landis, a former teammate of Armstrong’s, was the original plaintiff in the case, acting as a whistle-blower with a chance to receive a share of any money recovered by the government. The government chose to join the case after Armstrong’s confession in 2013, and the Postal Service claimed it would not have sponsored the team if it had known Armstrong was doping. Landis, who also doped during his cycling career and was stripped of the 2006 Tour de France title, will receive $1.1 million of the government’s $5 million. In addition to the $5 million settlement, Armstrong will pay $1.65 million to cover Landis’s legal costs, according to lawyers for both Landis and Armstrong. “It has been a difficult ordeal, and public opinion was not always on my side,” Landis said in a statement from his lawyer’s office. “But it was the right thing to do and I am hopeful that some positive changes for cycling and sport in general will be the result.” The government considered pursuing criminal fraud charges against Armstrong almost a year before he confessed, but it dropped the case. “No one is above the law,” Chad A. Readler, the acting assistant attorney general for the Justice Department’s civil division, said Thursday in a statement. “A competitor who intentionally uses illegal P.E.D.s not only deceives fellow competitors and fans, but also sponsors, who help make sporting competitions possible. This settlement demonstrates that those who cheat the government will be held accountable.”