 MOSCOW — There were few cheers in international hockey when the N.H.L. announced it would skip this year’s Winter Olympics. But it was good news for one team: Russia’s. The Russian Olympic Committee might be barred from the 2018 Pyeongchang Games for widespread doping, but many of the country’s athletes will still be allowed to compete under a neutral flag and in neutral uniforms. The N.H.L. announced in April that it would not hold its usual three-week break around the Olympics, citing injury risks and lost earnings during a lucrative period when it doesn’t have to compete with baseball or football. The N.H.L.’s decision means that Russia’s most prized team, men’s hockey, has an opportunity to shine at the 2018 Winter Games despite the dark doping cloud. For a country where hockey is paramount among sports and where few people accept the doping allegations against Russia, it’s a chance for restitution. “If they win the hockey, then people will forgive a lot,” said Igor Eronko, a hockey writer for the popular journal Sport Express. Without N.H.L. talent, Canada and the United States had to rebuild almost from scratch, pulling together players from European and minor leagues, as well as collegians. European heavyweights like Sweden and Finland have also had to scramble to refill their rosters. “At the end of the day, the Russian team, I think, is the most talented team, based on the available players they have,” said Sean Burke, Canada’s general manager. The Russians — or the “Olympic Athletes from Russia,” as the I.O.C. calls them — have perhaps the best chance for gold since they last won, in 1992, when Russian players were part of a unified team representing the former countries of the recently fallen Soviet Union. “A lot of teams are sure they can win,” Burke said. “That’s probably the first time that has happened in a long time.” Others countries have found replacements in Russia — players competing in the Kontinental Hockey League, the world’s second-best league. It is centered in Russia but takes in clubs from Central Europe to Asia. Several countries have drawn heavily from the K.H.L. for the Olympics — Canada is taking 13 players, Sweden 10 and Finland 16. The Russians, however, have a particularly deep K.H.L. bench, with a preponderance of former top N.H.L. stars. It means that while they were not untouched by the N.H.L. losses — Alex Ovechkin, Evgeni Malkin and Sergei Bobrovsky are not easily forgotten — they still have a roster stacked with big names. The former N.H.L. All-Stars Pavel Datsyuk and Ilya Kovalchuk are leading a team that includes the former Los Angeles Kings defenseman Slava Voynov and the K.H.L.’s career scoring leader, Sergei Mozyakin. The Russian team is built almost entirely from two K.H.L. teams, Moscow CSKA and SKA St. Petersburg, coached by SKA’s current trainer, Oleg Znarok. The K.H.L. has also in some ways been built with an eye on this moment. When the N.H.L. announced it wouldn’t participate, K.H.L. officials said they would work to bring home Russian players from North America. The league is also holding its longest ever Olympics break this year. “Everything has been done for this team to win,” Eronko said. That doesn’t mean it will. Russia’s recent Olympic record is unpromising: crashing out to Finland in the quarterfinals at the Sochi Olympics in 2014; drubbed by Canada at the same stage at the Vancouver Games in 2010. “The Russians are beatable,” Milan Hnilicka, the Czech Republic’s general manager, said. “They get frustrated if things don’t go their way. And I think that’s what everyone is going to try to play against.” The Russians themselves have publicly refused to be swayed by predictions that they are favorites. They learned from the 1980 “Miracle on Ice.” “One of the reasons we lost is we got cocky about the Americans,” said Vladimir V. Yurzinov, who was a coach for the 1980 Soviet team in Lake Placid, N.Y. “Olympics are such a thing. Anything can happen.”