 TAMPA, Fla. — Faced with the possibility of starting two rookies in their infield, the Yankees brought in some insurance on Tuesday, acquiring utility infielder Brandon Drury from the Arizona Diamondbacks in a three-team trade. The Yankees sent two minor leaguers — second baseman Nick Solak and right-handed pitcher Taylor Widener — to the Tampa Bay Rays, who shipped outfielder Steven Souza Jr. to the Diamondbacks. The Rays will also get left-handed pitcher Anthony Banda and two players to be named later from the Diamondbacks. Drury, 25, appealed to the Yankees on several fronts: He has displayed decent pop — with 31 home runs and a .767 on-base-plus-slugging percentage in a little over two seasons with the Diamondbacks — and he came cheaply. Because he is not yet eligible for arbitration, Drury will make close to the major-league minimum, giving the Yankees more flexibility to spend on pitching later this spring — or later this season — without endangering their goal of staying below the $197 million luxury tax threshold. The Yankees are currently about $20 million below the threshold. The Yankees began spring training on Monday intent on giving the rookies Gleyber Torres and Miguel Andujar opportunities to win the starting jobs at second and third base, respectively. But they are also hedging their bets: They signed the veterans Danny Espinosa and Jace Peterson to minor-league contracts last month, largely as cover at second base for Torres. Drury, who has played all four infield positions along with left and right field in his nascent career, is likely to see more time at third base. He played second base much of last season in large part because the Diamondbacks had an All-Star third baseman in Jake Lamb. Solak and Widener, who were selected in the second and 12th rounds in the 2016 draft, had performed well but were ultimately expendable. Though Solak had a .835 O.P.S. between Class-A Tampa and Class-AA Trenton last season, he is older (23) than Torres (21) and just two months younger than Tyler Wade, who is also ahead of him in the Yankees system. Widener, who like Solak had been invited to big-league camp, was 7-8 with a 3.39 E.R.A. at Class-A Tampa last season.