 LOS ANGELES — The record has persisted through the decades, even as relief pitchers take more and more innings from starters. Only one man has ever pitched in all seven games of a World Series. “It’s been forty-something years, and I always tell my wife it’s going to happen,” said Darold Knowles, 75, by phone from Florida this week. “I think it will — and maybe this will be the year.” Knowles pitched for eight teams across 16 seasons in the majors from 1965 through 1980. He was traded five times, sold once and had more losses than victories. But for seven games of the 1973 World Series for the Oakland Athletics, Knowles was indispensable – just as Brandon Morrow has been in this World Series for the Los Angeles Dodgers. Morrow appeared in his sixth game in a row against the Houston Astros on Tuesday, surviving a bases-loaded jam by retiring Alex Bregman on a grounder to end the top of the fifth inning, then collecting the first two outs of the sixth. The Dodgers forced a seventh game by edging the Astros, 3-1, and it is safe to assume Morrow will be ready. Yet there is a reason it is rare to pitch in every game of the World Series. Two years ago, when Addison Reed did it for the Mets, he gave up five runs to Kansas City in Game 5 as the Royals clinched the title. In 2002, the Giants’ Felix Rodriguez memorably faltered in Game 6 — his sixth appearance in a row — against the Angels. On Sunday, when the Los Angeles Dodgers called yet again for Morrow in Game 5, he served up four runs, including two homers, in just six weary pitches. His stuff was missing the mystical quality all pitches need: life. “That’s like the last 1 percent of what you can get on the ball, kind of like the life on your arm translates out and through the baseball,” Morrow said in the Dodgers’ somber clubhouse at Minute Maid Park after Game 5 ended in a 13-12 crusher won by the Astros in 10 innings. “Even though I felt good, I guess I just didn’t have as much life in my arm as I was hoping.” As the rehab pitching coordinator for the Toronto Blue Jays, Knowles is especially familiar with Morrow’s arm. When Knowles coached the Blue Jays’ Class A team in Dunedin, Fla., Morrow made annual visits while recovering from injuries each season from 2011 through 2014. Along the way, Morrow said, he came to learn Knowles’ claim to fame. Knowles came to respect Morrow’s determination to overcome injuries and manage Type 1 diabetes to fashion a productive major league career. “He had a lot of injuries when he was a starter with the Blue Jays, but it looks like he’s found his niche,” Knowles said. “He always threw hard. I wouldn’t have thought he’d be able to go two or three days in a row, but obviously that’s not a problem.” It had not been a problem when Knowles spoke, just before Game 5. By then, Morrow had thrown more than 12 postseason innings, with a 1.46 earned run average, as the primary setup man for Kenley Jansen. But Game 5 was Morrow’s 12th outing in the Dodgers’ 13 postseason games, and by the time he was done, an 8-7 Los Angeles lead had become an 11-8 deficit after a homer by George Springer, a single by Bregman, a double by Jose Altuve and another homer by Carlos Correa. Dave Roberts, the Dodgers’ manager, had said before Game 5 that while Morrow was available, he hoped not to use him. But Clayton Kershaw could not survive the fifth inning, and Roberts deployed Kenta Maeda and Tony Watson to get through the sixth. He still had four other relievers besides Jansen for the seventh, but Morrow had sent word from the bullpen insisting he was ready. “When I saw where the game was at in the 7th, I was getting loose and I was feeling O.K.,” Morrow said. “Probably selfish on my part to call down and push to let them know I’m ready and want to get in. They had a plan — we’re obviously very plan-oriented and try to stick to that — and I made them deviate away.” Roberts called it “a credit to him” that Morrow asked to pitch, and said it would have been hard to turn him down. Morrow, who signed a minor-league contract in January for just $1.125 million, had a 2.06 e.r.a. . — with no home runs allowed — over 45 games this season, averaging more than five and a half strikeouts per walk. “He was very good in spring training,” Roberts said. “You see the plus, plus velocity, and you always think, in a shorter stint, will his stuff play up? So he really embraced coming out of the pen this year, and he did that for our Triple-A club.” Morrow, who had pitched a decade with Seattle, Toronto and San Diego, yearned for the intensity that comes with the major leagues. But he had pitched just 18 games for the Padres last season after shoulder surgery in 2015 had ended his career as a starter. “I was obviously hoping to get a major league deal,” said Morrow, who had a 1.69 e.r.a. in 18 games for San Diego. “I thought I threw the ball really well, but the swing-and-miss stuff wasn’t there, and the velocity wasn’t quite back all the way. Picking up the ball this year, though, something was different, like I knew I was stronger, ready to go. I felt like myself again.” Morrow has always had the stuff to dominate. Seattle drafted him fifth over all in 2006, out of the University of California, passing on Andrew Miller and three future Cy Young Award winners — Kershaw, Tim Lincecum and Max Scherzer — – who went in the next six picks. The Mariners never found a steady role for Morrow. Traded to Toronto in December 2009, he periodically flourished as a starter, and lost a no-hitter with two outs in the ninth inning in 2010, finishing with a 137-pitch, 17-strikeout one-hitter. In 2012, he threw three shutouts through the first week in June. Then an oblique injury cost him more than two months. Forearm problems and a torn tendon in his hand hampered him in other seasons. No wonder, then, that with good health this season, Morrow has been eager to contribute as much as possible. Knowles can relate. In 1972, he was an eight-year major leaguer on an Oakland team bound for the World Series — but a broken thumb in late September ended his season. The next year, the A’s won a five-game American League Championship Series without using Knowles at all. “I just wanted to get into a World Series game; everybody dreams of that,” Knowles said. “I was just thanking God I got into the first game, and I happened to get the save.” In that game, against the Mets, Knowles relieved closer Rollie Fingers with one out and one on in the ninth inning, protecting a 2-1 lead. The Mets had announced the left-handed Rusty Staub as a pinch-hitter against the right-handed Fingers, a future Hall of Famer. But when Oakland Manager Dick Williams called for the left-handed Knowles, the Mets’ manager, Yogi Berra, countered with a righty, Jim Beauchamp. Knowles retired Beauchamp on an infield pop, and then got the left-handed Wayne Garrett to fly out to end the game. From there, Williams just kept calling for Knowles, who had 12 days of rest from the end of the regular season to the start of the World Series. He collected five outs in Game 2, and then faced 15 batters across the next three games at Shea Stadium. Facing elimination at home in Game 6, Williams used Knowles to replace another future Hall of Famer, Catfish Hunter, with a 2-0 lead, one out and one on in the eighth inning. Garrett and Felix Millan singled, cutting the lead to a run, but Knowles recovered to strike out Staub. “Yogi Berra said that was the biggest out of the series,” Knowles said. “It took giving up back-to-back hits for that to happen, so it wasn’t ideal.” Fingers got the final four outs of Game 6, and on the morning of Game 7, Knowles learned that no pitcher had ever worked all seven games of a World Series. He knew he might have a chance to be the first, but it almost never came. Fingers entered Game 7 with one out in the sixth, and held a 5-1 lead with two outs in the ninth. But when first baseman Gene Tenace booted a grounder by Ed Kranepool, scoring a run, the left-handed Garrett came to the plate as the potential tying run. Knowles got his turn, retiring Garrett on a pop fly to short for the final out. “I told Dick Williams after Game 7, ‘You’re the dumbest manager I ever played for — you took out Rollie Fingers and you brought me in!’” Knowles said. “But he played everything by the book, and it worked out.” Knowles and Garrett are friends now; both live in Florida, and they sometimes golf together. Every time he sees him, Knowles said, he reminds Garrett of that final out — which he got without even using his left-on-left advantage. “I threw him three Nolan Ryan fastballs,” Knowles said, laughing. “I pitched all seven games and I think I threw only one slider all series. I was having trouble with it, so I junked it. I was not a power guy, but I had movement.” All pitchers learn to improvise when their best weapons betray them, and Morrow could not do it in Game 5. But on Tuesday he helped get the World Series to Game 7, where he could a record. “You just try to dig inside,” Morrow said, “and pull everything out that you’ve got.”