 HOUSTON — It felt like the beginning on Saturday night at Minute Maid Park, the arrival of a new force on the World Series stage. The Houston Astros are back, for the first time in a dozen years, and they want to stay awhile. “We took a lot of grief early,” said the Astros’ owner, Jim Crane, who bought baseball’s worst team in 2011 and kept it that way for a stretch. “But now the team is built to last, and hopefully we’ll have another whole bunch of chances to do this again.” They hope, of course, but the Astros do not know. Nobody does. Just when things are starting, they can also be ending. Lance McCullers Jr. usually starts. In Game 7 of the American League Championship Series, he followed Charlie Morton with four overpowering innings at the end. He allowed a leadoff single to his first batter and no other hits. He walked one with six strikeouts, all on swinging third-strike curveballs. McCullers spun curve after curve — 24 in a row to end the game — and the Yankees never solved him. “He’s got as good a curveball as we’ve seen in the game this year,” said the Hall of Famer Nolan Ryan, whose curveball helped make him the majors’ career strikeout leader. “He has a lot of confidence in it, and it’s special to watch.” McCullers is 24, a first-time All-Star this season, and a power pitcher who has averaged more than 10 strikeouts per nine innings in his three-year career. He has not won a Cy Young Award, like Justin Verlander and Dallas Keuchel, the aces who front the Astros’ rotation. But he looks as if he may, someday. Yet so did his close friend and off-season training partner Jose Fernandez, who was killed in a boating accident last year in Miami, where he had played for the Marlins. McCullers’s father, Lance McCullers Sr., did not contend for awards, but seemed to be headed for a long career as a durable reliever when his arm betrayed him, without warning, in 1990. “It happened one night in Detroit,” McCullers Sr. said on the field here after Game 7, streamers still dangling from the overhead wires. “I threw against the Royals and threw great for four innings or so. It was right at the All-Star break. I went home, came back and threw one game, and I had a twinge in my arm. Ended up having a blood clot. I did come back, but I was never the same.” A 90 percent blockage in the axillary artery in his shoulder essentially ended his career. McCullers Sr. was 26 years old and had pitched 301 games for San Diego, the Yankees and Detroit. He would pitch just five more, all before his first son was born. He was out of the game by 1996, when the Yankees opened a spring training ballpark near the family’s home in Tampa, Fla. McCullers Sr. took a hard-hat tour during construction, and once took Lance Jr. to meet the players in the clubhouse. The family still has tickets, eight rows behind the Yankees’ on-deck circle. “I grew up watching those guys; I love those guys,” said McCullers Jr., who went to Jesuit High School on North Himes Avenue, the same street as the Yankees’ minor league complex. “But tonight, I had to do what I had to do.” The Astros envisioned a night like this in 2012, at the first draft for their general manager, Jeff Luhnow. They used the No. 1 overall pick on shortstop Carlos Correa, who signed for a reduced bonus that allowed them to meet the asking price of two other coveted prospects: McCullers and infielder Rio Ruiz, who was eventually traded to Atlanta for designated hitter Evan Gattis. In Game 7, Gattis lashed a homer for the Astros’ first run. Correa singled twice and scored. And McCullers authored just the third four-inning save to clinch a postseason series, after Oakland’s Vida Blue in the 1972 A.L.C.S. and San Francisco’s Madison Bumgarner (five innings) in the 2014 World Series. On the podium behind second base on Saturday, as the Astros received their A.L. championship trophy, Correa draped an arm around Luhnow and reminded him of that first draft. “It’s crazy,” Correa said later. “I got drafted with Lance; we grew up together through the minor league system. And now to be here, tasting the World Series, it’s just surreal. That curveball was working, it was nasty, he was confident. It doesn’t get any better than what he did today.” A. J. Hinch, the Astros’ manager, said he had not known McCullers would be so dominant on Saturday, when he was pitching on three days’ rest. But he knew he would thrive in the setting. McCullers rises to the moment, Hinch said, with a ravenous killer instinct. That assessment got back to McCullers later, in the soggy, smoky home clubhouse. He was proud to explain why. “It comes from how I grew up, man,” he said. “My dad taught me to be a bulldog. This game was, in a way, kind of stolen from him. He got hurt a lot toward the end of his career, and he had a lot left to give. “When I was growing up, he gave that love that he had for this game to me and my brothers, and he said: ‘When you’re out there on that field, you show what you’re made of. You show them, “Hey, this is me, this is what I’ve got” — and be resilient and just love this game.’ “I love this game. I absolutely love this game. And that’s why I think that kind of attitude comes out.” Fernandez loved it, too. The sobering details of his final moments — a toxicology report showed he had been drunk, with cocaine in his system; and two others died in the crash — have not changed that reality. McCullers Sr. said his son had honored Fernandez in subtle, unspoken ways, in his movements on the field and his daily routine. As he pitched the biggest game of his young life on Saturday, McCullers Jr. thought of Fernandez, distinctly, at least twice. Once was before the final out, when Greg Bird flied to center. The other was after a leadoff walk in the eighth inning to Todd Frazier. He was just the second base runner McCullers allowed, and the last. “I said, ‘Hey, show what you got, because Jose would,’” McCullers said. “Dead serious. Stepped off the mound, looked down. You know, people you loved from your past, they’re never off your mind. They’re always there, in the back of it. “This season wasn’t like, ‘Oh, I want to pitch well for Jose.’ It was more like, ‘I want to celebrate the way he loved the game, the way he played the game.’ I still love him, and I’m very sure he was watching.” This was McCullers’s moment, the kind his father and Fernandez never got. McCullers Sr. said he hoped his son could play for 10 or 15 years, but he knows that may not happen. Every day is precious. That was the spirit behind the most important message he said he had given to Lance Jr. “Never take for granted that you made it,” McCullers Sr. said, repeating his advice. “You’ve got to keep working hard, because you never know how long you’re going to be able to play.” His son understood. If this was the best it ever gets for Lance McCullers Jr., it was quite a night.