 Ben Richardson and Clayton Custer look exactly like what they are: a couple of gym rats. As kids, they slung on their backpacks and dribbled basketballs on their way to school. They wore each other’s Kansas driveways smooth shooting thousands of jumpers and playing countless one-on-one games. Richardson and Custer first became teammates as third graders, with jerseys that hung to their knees, a time when both needed every ounce of their little boy strength just to get the ball to the rim. They won their first national title as fourth graders, at a youth tournament in Indiana. They picked up another as sixth graders. At Blue Valley Northwest High School in Overland Park, they went 94-6, played in four straight Kansas state championship games, and won titles in their junior and senior years. Earlier this month, Richardson and Custer, still teammates, but now in the maroon and gold of Loyola-Chicago, led the Ramblers to the Missouri Valley Conference tournament title. Afterward, as they bounced giddily into the locker room, their coach, Porter Moser, said he overheard one saying to the other: “Man, can you believe this? We’ve won since we were in third grade.” They will arrive at the Final Four in San Antonio this week only two victories from their biggest title yet. If Sister Jean Dolores Schmidt, the team’s 98-year-old chaplain and scout, is the soul of the Loyola Ramblers basketball team, then Richardson and Custer are its heart. Watch Richardson, who Loyola claims is 6-foot-3, and Custer, listed as a credulity-testing 6-1, get off the team bus and you might mistake them for student-managers. “We are not specimens, we are not imposing,” conceded Custer who, the morning Loyola defeated Kansas State to earn its trip to the Final Four, was handed a cellphone by a young woman who wanted her photo taken with a group of Loyola players. It did not occur to her that Custer, who was named the Missouri Valley player of the year this season, was one of them. “Being overlooked has been happening to me in gyms since I was a kid,” Custer said. “I know we don’t exactly look like Division I stars.” Still, neither Richardson nor Custer is surprised that they are on their way to San Antonio to play Michigan on Saturday. As boys, they used to spend the night at each other’s homes, staring at the ceiling and talking about playing in the Final Four. But they also put in the years of work that finally got them there. Ed Fritz, their first coach, said that he remembers seeing them as boys pedaling their bikes around Overland Park, a sedate suburb of Kansas City, Mo., looking for an open gym or a playground. When he became their coach at Blue Valley Northwest, he was the one who fielded calls from the high school’s night staff asking if it was O.K. for Richardson and Custer to be shooting in the gym, and he was the one who would find them back there most mornings, already on the court before he arrived. But what tickled him the most were the days when they played a team sponsored by one of the big shoe companies, squads with bigger names and, often, bigger players. “We didn’t scare anybody walking into the gym,” Fritz said, “but they knew who we were and respected us by the time we walked out of there.” As successful as Richardson and Clayton were in high school, however, they failed to capture the attention of the major college powers, especially the one every player from their area wants to come calling: Kansas. The Jayhawks’ campus is barely an hour from Overland Park, and Custer and Richardson thought of Allen Fieldhouse the same way young musicians think about Carnegie Hall. The morning after K.U. won the 2008 N.C.A.A. tournament, Richardson and Custer found a court to re-enact one of the most famous plays Jayhawks history: Sherron Collins’s dribble and handoff to Mario Chalmers for the game-tying 3-pointer against Derrick Rose and Memphis. Kansas won the game in overtime. “That one was definitely one we did a bunch,” Richardson said. “The handoff coming off the screen — we took turns hitting that shot.” But Kansas Coach Bill Self was not interested in Richardson or Custer coming out of high school, and neither was Bruce Weber at Kansas State. Instead, Richardson chose Loyola-Chicago, and Custer accepted a scholarship to Iowa State. As a Ramblers freshman, Richardson played in every game, eventually earning a starting spot. Custer, meanwhile, saw action in only 12 games at Iowa State. Richardson said he knew his best friend was unhappy before the season ever started. “We talked all the time intimately and I knew he was struggling,” Richardson said. “I told him to come visit and even if he didn’t like it here we’d have a great weekend. He’s my best friend, and I think he’s the best point guard in this tournament. Yes, I wanted him to come to Loyola, but mostly I wanted him to be happy.” Custer transferred to Loyola, sat out a year, and now everyone — Custer, Richardson, Moser and especially Sister Jean — is happy. The Ramblers are 32-5 and in the Final Four for the first time since 1963, the year Loyola-Chicago won its only national championship. This spring has been the season they dreamed about: Custer hit the shot that won a second-round game against Tennessee, and Richardson scored 23 points — and made 6 of 7 3-pointers — in the regional final against Kansas State. And their season to remember is not over. Michigan, of course, awaits. In the other semifinal, Villanova takes on Kansas. What if? Richardson and Custer share a dorm room at Loyola and, just as they did when they were boys, they have had nights staring at the ceiling talking about how far they have come. Together. And how far they can go. Richardson is a senior, but Custer, because of his transfer, is a redshirt junior. Richardson knows that his next game might be his last, but he is determined to end this basketball journey the way it started. Alongside his best friend. And as a winner.