 HOUSTON — For decades, the best relievers in the major leagues received a trophy topped by the silver hat of a “fireman.” The quaint term still flickers, faintly, around baseball. Brandon Morrow mentioned it in the Los Angeles Dodgers’ clubhouse here late Saturday night. “It feels good to be the fireman,” Morrow said, “the guy that comes in, middle of the order, to get the big outs.” To really be a fireman, though, there needs to be something to extinguish. In the modern game, especially in the World Series, relievers are more like peacekeepers than firefighters. You call for them before the blaze starts, just to keep things stable. The Dodgers evened this World Series in Game 4 on Saturday with a 6-2 victory over the Houston Astros at Minute Maid Park. The game was tied, 1-1, into the ninth inning, but by then the starters were long gone. Alex Wood carried a no-hit bid through five and two-thirds innings, longer than Orel Hershiser, Sandy Koufax or any other Dodger ever had in the World Series. He lost it on a homer by George Springer, and did not throw another pitch. The Astros’ Charlie Morton faced the minimum 15 batters through five innings, and allowed just three hits and a run in six and one-third innings. It was the only matchup in World Series history in which both starters allowed four or fewer base runners. Yet despite efficient pitch counts — 84 for Wood, 76 for Morton — both starters were gone by the seventh-inning stretch. “It’s always in your best interest to take the pitcher out a hitter too early rather than a hitter too late, and I’ve always tried to give the reliever a little bit of a leash,” Astros Manager A. J. Hinch said. “I always try to give the starter a ‘job well done’ when he walks off the mound. But the context of the game is always going to shift and change.” Since the Mets’ Matt Harvey faltered in the ninth inning of the final game of 2015, managers have refused to let starters go deep in the World Series. The starters in Game 3 of the Series last fall — the Chicago Cubs’ Kyle Hendricks and the Cleveland Indians’ Josh Tomlin — were both removed in the fifth inning of a scoreless tie. No starter recorded an out past the sixth inning of that World Series, and through four games of this one, the only starter to complete seven was the Dodgers’ Clayton Kershaw in Game 1. Kershaw, who threw just 83 pitches that night, was scheduled for a rematch with Dallas Keuchel in Game 5 here on Sunday. The idea, Dodgers Manager Dave Roberts said, is to predict when trouble might happen and avoid it, upending the traditional notion of riding a starter until he gets tired. “Baseball’s very reactionary,” Roberts said, explaining that he tries “to be proactive and get ahead of something that potentially might happen — and to go a direction that might increase your chances marginally.” The Dodgers have done this all year. In the regular season, they had the fewest starts in the majors of at least 100 pitches, with their pitchers reaching that threshold just 24 times — half by Kershaw. In the 12 games the Dodgers had played in this postseason entering Sunday, only Kershaw had thrown 85 pitches in a start. “We’re very into analytics here, and numbers say the third time through the order, things kind of fall apart sometimes,” Morrow said. “I don’t think we necessarily anticipated that with Woody throwing the ball as well as he was. Even though he gave up a home run there, he’s more than able to come back and throw two or three more innings, I’m sure. Games like this, you make the decision.” Roberts’s decisions guided the Dodgers to 104 victories in the regular season, the most in the franchise’s six decades in Los Angeles. They now have a chance to finish this World Series at Dodger Stadium on Tuesday or Wednesday, so they might be on to something. Yet, for Wood and his fellow starter Rich Hill — who was pulled after four innings, one run and just 60 pitches in Game 2 — the numbers do not spike drastically after the second time through the order. In the regular season, Hill kept hitters to a .162 average when facing them for the third or fourth time in a game. Against Wood in such situations, the average was .222. Then again, Roberts and Hinch — he of the similarly analytics-minded Astros — have reams of proprietary data to prepare them for nearly every possible in-game decision. They work closely with their front offices in a manner that the Yankees, who dismissed Joe Girardi last week after 10 winning seasons, will seek from their next manager. Roberts invited scrutiny in Game 2 after pulling Hill so early. The game went into extra innings, and by the time it reached the top of the 11th, Roberts was down to one reliever, Brandon McCarthy, who had not pitched in the entire postseason. McCarthy faltered, and the Dodgers lost. But those circumstances arose only because Kenley Jansen, who is normally infallible, blew the save in Game 2 after being handed a two-run lead in the eighth inning by the four Dodgers relievers who preceded him. When the other relievers hold a lead for Jansen, Roberts has essentially done his job, regardless of the final outcome. Even with meticulous planning, it is the players, not the manager, who control the results. So it was in Game 4 of the Series, when Morton left with a 1-0 lead in the seventh inning but the bullpen gave up six runs behind him. It was natural to wonder what might have been had Morton stayed in the game, and Hinch understood. “You can draw it out perfectly and map it out, but you never know how the other outcome would have been,” he said. “Everybody in baseball thinks that the other way would have been perfectly good, and we don’t know.” We do know that bullpen usage is changing, and starters rarely determine the outcome on their own anymore. They have gotten to the World Series this way, and accept it. “We haven’t really had to work too hard so far in the playoffs,” Wood said, paying tribute to the Dodgers’ bullpen. “They’ve been absolutely nails.”