 LONDON — Chelsea let a two-goal lead disappear against Roma before recovering for a 3-3 tie in the Champions League on Wednesday as the Blues’ defensive vulnerability was exposed again. Following Premier League losses to Manchester City and struggling Crystal Palace, Chelsea, the defending English champion, salvaged a point after Eden Hazard headed in his second goal of the night in the 75th minute. Edin Dzeko scored twice, briefly putting Roma in front, but Chelsea remained two points ahead of the Italian club at the top of the group. Atlético Madrid is three points further back after being held to a scoreless tie by Qarabag, a newcomer to the competition from Azerbaijan that earned its first point in its third game. Chelsea had a blistering start at Stamford Bridge with David Luiz curling a shot into the bottom corner after 11 minutes. The lead was preserved by the right boot of goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois, which denied Radja Nainggolan from close range. Chelsea extended that lead in the 37th. When Roma conceded possession in the Chelsea half, Hazard used his pace to launch a counterattack. Alvaro Morata was released down the left and the striker wove through the defense before a deflected shot landed at the feet of Hazard, who was primed to sweep the ball into the net. Roma pulled one back five minutes before halftime when Aleksandar Kolarov got around Cesar Azpilicueta and struck past Courtois. In the 64th minute, Dzeko unleashed a first-time volley through Courtois’s arms after being set up by the former Tottenham defender Federico Fazio. Courtois was beaten again by Dzeko six minutes later as Kolarov and Dzeko combined. Dzeko darted into space between Chelsea defender to meet Kolarov’s free kick with a header. But Hazard came to Chelsea’s rescue when he headed in Pedro Rodriguez’s cross, and the hosts hung on for the point. BARCELONA 3, OLYMPIAKOS 1 Lionel Messi scored his 100th goal in European competition to lead Barcelona to a victory at home against Olympiakos. Messi, playing in his 122nd European match, curled a free kick over the wall in the 61st minute. Goalkeeper Silvio Proto got a hand on the ball but couldn’t keep it out as Messi took his career tally in the Champions League to 97 goals. Barcelona went in front thanks to an own goal by Dimitris Nikolaou in the 18th minute, but three minutes before halftime the hosts went down to 10 men. Gerard Pique got a second booking for using his arm to steer the ball into the net. The strike was disallowed. However, Barcelona continued to outplay Olympiakos despite playing a man down. Messi provided the pass that led left back Lucas Digne to score in the 64th. Messi dribbled around a defender before cutting the ball back through the area for Digne to drive it home. Nikolaou scored Olympiakos’ lone goal with a header from a corner in the 90th minute. Barcelona made it three wins from as many matches in Group D and extended its unbeaten run at home in the competition to 23 straight games. Olympiakos remained with zero points. Barcelona coach Ernesto Valverde coached Olympiakos from 2008-09 and 2010-12, guiding it to three Greek league titles. Juventus beat Sporting Lisbon 2-1 in the other match in Group D. OTHER MATCHES In Group A, Manchester United took advantage of a mistake by the 18-year-old Benfica goalkeeper Mile Svilar to earn a 1-0 win on the road and Basel won 2-0 at CSKA Moscow. In Group B, Paris Saint-Germain won by 4-0 at Anderlecht to remain perfect, and Bayern Munich defeated Celtic, 3-0.