 Alex Ovechkin scored twice and Braden Holtby made 35 saves as the Washington Capitals advanced to the Eastern Conference semifinals with a 6-3 victory on Monday over the host Columbus Blue Jackets. The Capitals, who won the series, four games to two, will face Pittsburgh in the second round of the playoffs for the third straight season. The Penguins won each of the last two years on the way to winning consecutive Stanley Cup championships. Chandler Stephenson had a goal and an assist, and Dimitry Orlov, Devante Smith-Pelly and Lars Eller also scored for Washington, which never trailed in the game after prevailing in overtime in Game 5 on Saturday. Nick Foligno had two goals, Pierre-Luc Dubois also scored and Sergei Bobrovsky finished with 22 saves for the Blue Jackets, who lost in the first round for the second consecutive season and fourth time over all. They remain the only active N.H.L. franchise never to win a playoff series. Washington won four straight games after going down by 2-0 at home, with both games decided in overtime. MAPLE LEAFS 3, BRUINS 1 Frederik Andersen stopped 32 shots, leading Toronto to a home win over Boston that forced a decisive Game 7 in the teams’ first-round series. William Nylander, Mitch Marner and Tomas Plekanec scored for the Maple Leafs, who had trailed the series, 3-1, before winning two straight. Nikita Zaitsev added two assists, and Marner and Plekanec each had one. Jake DeBrusk scored for the Bruins, and Tuukka Rask, who had been pulled in Game 5 at home, finished with 27 saves. Game 7 will be Wednesday night in Boston, with the winner advancing to face Tampa Bay in the Eastern Conference semifinals. There was a moment of silence before the opening face-off at Air Canada Centre to honor the 10 people killed earlier in the day when a van mounted a sidewalk in Toronto’s north end and struck pedestrians. Fifteen others were injured. The game was scoreless after an end-to-end first period, but the Bruins grabbed a 1-0 lead 1 minute 2 seconds into the second when David Krejci won a face-off after an icing and sent the puck to DeBrusk, who beat Andersen between his arm and body. Toronto responded just 35 seconds later when Nylander buried the rebound of a Jake Gardiner shot from the point for his first goal of the playoffs. The Leafs appeared to go ahead at 3:04 when Zach Hyman beat Rask with a no-look backhand as he fell to the ice. The Bruins challenged the play for goaltender interference, and replays showed that Hyman had knocked the stick out of Rask’s hands as he cruised through the crease just before scoring. The Maple Leafs finally took the lead with 6:35 left in the period when Marner was quickest to a loose puck in the slot and beat Rask with a backhand to the far post after Marchand could not clear.