 The Boston Celtics, whose season began with a devastating injury, will enter the N.B.A. playoffs with news of another: Kyrie Irving, their All-Star point guard, needs another operation on his left knee and will miss the postseason. The team, which had been hopeful that Irving would return to the lineup at some point in the playoffs after undergoing knee surgery last month, announced Thursday that he was scheduled for a second procedure to remove two screws from the knee and that he would need four to five months to recover. With just over a week remaining in the regular season, the Celtics (53-25) have the second-best record in the Eastern Conference, but Irving’s absence is a blow to their hopes of contending for a title. Irving, in his first season with the Celtics after forcing an off-season trade from the Cleveland Cavaliers, averaged 24.4 points and 5.1 assists a game this season while shooting a career-best 49.1 percent from the field. His play had helped make up for the loss of Gordon Hayward, an All-Star forward who suffered a grisly ankle injury on the first day of the regular season. Irving’s problems stem from a procedure he had three years ago, after he fractured his left kneecap in the 2015 N.B.A. finals. At the time, surgeons implanted a tension wire and two screws in his knee. But this season, after experiencing discomfort, Irving underwent what the Celtics described as a “minimally invasive procedure” to remove the wire with the aim of relieving irritation in his patellar tendon. The Celtics had anticipated that Irving, 26, would be able to return within three to six weeks, but subsequent tests revealed a bacterial infection at the site of the two screws. On Saturday, Irving is scheduled to have the screws removed to “ensure that no infection remains in the knee,” the team said in a statement. “The hardest thing to do sometimes is accept the uncontrollable things life throws at you,” Irving wrote in a lengthy post on his Instagram account, adding: “This season was only a snapshot of what’s to come from me. Trust me.” With Irving out, the Celtics’ chances of competing in the East are severely diminished — and the conference playoffs could be wide open. The Toronto Raptors are poised to be the top-seeded team behind DeMar DeRozan and Kyle Lowry. The Cavaliers, after several bumpy stretches, are surging once again behind LeBron James, who is assembling one of the finest seasons of his career at age 33. But perhaps no team looks more dangerous than the Philadelphia 76ers, who have won 12 straight games as they prepare for their first playoff appearance since 2012. Boston has not had much luck in recent seasons. Last year, the Celtics were the top-seeded team in the East but were eliminated by the Cavaliers in the conference finals after Isaiah Thomas, their star point guard, was sidelined with a hip injury. Three months later, the Celtics traded Thomas to Cleveland as part of the blockbuster deal that sent Irving to Boston. Thomas was later traded to the Los Angeles Lakers.