 Don Carter, who was instrumental in bringing the National Basketball Association to Dallas with the expansion Mavericks in 1980, died on Wednesday at his home in Dallas. He was 84. The Dallas County medical examiner confirmed the death but did not specify the cause. Mr. Carter founded the Mavericks with Norm Sonju, the team’s first president. He sold his majority interest to a group led by Ross Perot Jr. in 1996 but kept a minority stake. The Mavericks were a model franchise in their early days, quickly becoming a contender and reaching the Western Conference finals in 1988 before losing to the Los Angeles Lakers. When Dallas won its first (and only) championship in 2011, defeating the Miami Heat, Mark Cuban, who bought the team in 2000, invited Mr. Carter to celebrate with the team on the court in Miami. The N.B.A. commissioner, David Stern, handed the trophy to Mr. Carter, who was wearing his trademark white cowboy hat, part of the team’s early logo. “I was touched, really touched,” Mr. Carter said at the time. “I knew this day was going to come, but I just wondered if I was going to be in a wheelchair for it.” Mr. Carter remained a regular at courtside after selling the team, but he had been largely absent in recent months because of declining health. He was not there last month when the Mavericks retired the number of Derek Harper, who was among the early star players under Mr. Carter, along with Mark Aguirre and Rolando Blackman. Donald J. Carter was born in Arkansas on July 5, 1933. In addition to the Mavericks, his business interests included automobile dealerships, hotels, cattle ranches and rodeo arenas. He and Mr. Sonju negotiated with the N.B.A. for months before the league agreed to let Mr. Carter pay half of the $12 million expansion fee (about $38.5 million in 2018 dollars) in two installments rather than requiring all $6 million up front. Forbes magazine recently estimated the team’s value at $1.9 billion. The Mavericks were introduced on May 1, 1980, in downtown Dallas near the site of Reunion Arena, which was their home for 21 seasons. Mr. Carter told The Dallas Morning News in 2005 that he had decided to acquire a franchise partly as a present for his wife, Linda, who had been a standout high school basketball player. Besides his wife, survivors include their three children Joey, Ron and Christi Carter Urschel; six grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.