 Rain in Cincinnati and Detroit ended a plan to have all 30 teams playing on opening day. But the other 26 are still ready to go, and ESPN will have a national quadruple header. Here’s the lineup.  • Cubs at Marlins, 12:30 p.m. Eastern: Jon Lester vs. Jose Urena, ESPN Derek Jeter’s first opening day as a CEO.  • Cardinals at Mets, 1:10 p.m.: Carlos Martinez vs. Noah Syndergaard Syndegaard pitched in only seven games last year because of a torn muscle.  • Twins at Orioles, 3:05 p.m.: Jake Odorizzi vs. Dylan Bundy The Twins went from 59 wins to a wild-card berth last season.  • Astros at Rangers, 3:30 p.m.: Justin Verlander vs. Cole Hamels, ESPN The world champions send out Verlander, who started nine of the last 10 openers for the Tigers.  • Yankees at Blue Jays, 3:37 p.m.: Luis Severino vs. J.A. Happ Giancarlo Stanton joins the Yanks’ murderers’ row and will bat third as the D.H.  • Red Sox vs. Rays, 4 p.m.: Chris Sale vs. Chris Archer Sale, the only 300-strikeout pitcher last season, starts for Boston, who added outfielder J.D. Martinez.  • Angels at Athletics, 4:05 p.m.: Garrett Richards vs. Kendall Graveman Shohei Ohtani is likely to be the Angels’ DH. • Brewers at Padres, 4:10 p.m.: Chase Anderson vs. Clayton Richard The Padres added Eric Hosmer from the Royals. The Brewers added Lorenzo Cain from the Royals. • Phillies at Braves, 4:10 p.m.: Aaron Nola vs. Julio Teheran Hopes are high in Philadelphia with the acquisition of Jake Arrieta. • White Sox at Royals, 4:15 p.m.: James Shields vs. Danny Duffy Three years after a World Series win, the Royals lost Hosmer and Cain and may be heading the wrong way.  • Giants at Dodgers, 7 p.m.: Ty Blach vs. Clayton Kershaw, ESPN The Dodgers send out 18-game-winner Kershaw, but the Giants are missing Madison Bumgarner with a broken finger.  • Indians vs. Mariners, 10 p.m. Corey Kluber vs. Felix Hernandez, ESPN Cy Young winner Kluber faces Hernandez, making his 10th opening day start. Ichiro Suzuki will start at age 44 for Seattle.  • Rockies at Diamondbacks, 10:10 p.m.: Jon Gray vs. Patrick Corbin An N.L. wild card game rematch: Arizona won that game, with Gray taking the loss in relief. Postponed: Nationals at Reds, Pirates at Tigers