 If you are in New York City and of Irish descent, there is probably little question where you will be on March 17 of any given year: parading down Fifth Avenue with the occasional stop at a pub for a pint of Guinness or a spot of Jameson’s. If you are Michael Conlan, your whereabouts on this St. Patrick’s Day — and potentially every one between now and 2021 — will be a matter of public and contractual record. As long as he keeps winning, Conlan, an Irish-born featherweight boxer, will be in the ring at Madison Square Garden, fighting the last bout of the evening. That is what he will be doing Saturday night, spending his second straight March 17 in a featured bout at the Hulu Theater, the Garden’s 5,600-seat adjunct arena. “The atmosphere here is unbelievable,” Conlan said. “Just thinking about the last time makes the hairs on the back of my neck stand up.” Conlan is still a boxing neophyte; he has had just five pro fights and, according to BoxRec.com, a website that rates professional boxers, is ranked 222nd among the world’s 126-pounders. But he has a skill some fighters never acquire — the ability to sell tickets — and a connection with a population that his promoters believe has been underserved. “Obviously, you get people saying, ‘Why is this kid on TV at this stage of his career?’ ” Conlan said. “But it’s simple: I’m a good fighter, and I have a strong fan base.” Last year, Conlan was put in the position of making his pro debut in a Garden main event on St. Patrick’s Day before a raucous capacity crowd, about 3,500 of which had made the trek from Ireland to watch him perform. It was a blatant attempt by Conlan’s promoter, Top Rank, to exploit what boxing promoters have always exploited — ethnic and national pride — and to cash in on the notoriety Conlan brought upon himself when he, unhappy with a decision against him, directed an obscene gesture from the ring toward the judges in the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. That, and the obscenity-filled tirade Conlan delivered to a television interviewer immediately afterward, endeared him to Top Rank’s feisty 86-year-old president, Bob Arum, who said: “I would have reacted the same way. That’s what made me love him.” Arum saw the potential for green in Conlan, signing him to a multiyear promotional agreement and reserving the Garden for the next five St. Patrick’s Days in the expectation that Conlan will sell the place out every year, the way Arum had used Miguel Cotto to fill the Garden several years in a row on the weekend of the city’s Puerto Rican Day Parade. But carrying those multiple burdens, as well as fighting under the withering eye of Conor McGregor, the Irish-born Ultimate Fighting Championship superstar who was on his way to a $100 million payday against Floyd Mayweather Jr., proved to be a little too heavy for Conlan, then 25, who labored to a third-round technical knockout over the journeyman Tim Ibarra. “When I look back on it now, my performance wasn’t good that night,” Conlan said. “There was a lot of pressure, and I don’t think anybody would have not felt it. It was the atmosphere of a world title fight, but it was my pro debut. “I’ve come a long way since then.” Now, it’s time for Conlan to prove it. This fight is not so much about Irish pageantry or Olympic injustice or shows of bravado: It’s about whether this engaging and marketable young man can actually fight. Conlan has a new trainer, a new manager, a new home and, he said, a new style of boxing that he will unveil against David Berna of Hungary. With a 15-2 record, Berna, on paper, is the most dangerous opponent he will have faced. And this time, Conlan will not be in the main event; that honor goes to Jose Ramirez and Amir Imam, who will fight 12 rounds for a vacant superlightweight title. But Conlan will still have the last fight of the night — what is commonly called the “walkout” bout — to do just the opposite: keep people from leaving after the main event. With another 3,000 fans expected to travel from Ireland this year, the promoters are taking no chances by having him fight earlier — and risk the embarrassment of a near-empty house in front of ESPN cameras for the main event. “I think whenever I fight in New York it’s going to be like that,” Conlan said. His first year as a pro fighter was a mixed bag. He won all five of his bouts, four by knockout, looked better in some than others, and had the experience of fighting before 55,000 people in Brisbane, Australia, on the undercard of a Manny Pacquiao fight. But Top Rank’s matchmaker, Bruce Trampler, said no one was sure about his long-term prospects. “I don’t quite know what he is yet,” Trampler said. “With Conlan, there’s a lot more questions than there are answers right now. But I think we’re going to get a new read on this kid in this fight.” After signing with Top Rank, Conlan moved to Los Angeles to train with Manny Robles, a Mexican-American trainer who teaches a brawling, take-two-punches-to-land-one style, and was managed by Matthew Macklin, an English former middleweight. But in January, Conlan relocated to London to be closer to his fiancée, who is expecting their second child in July, and hired the Englishman Adam Booth, a more defensive-minded coach, as his trainer. He also enlisted his brother, Jamie, a professional superflyweight who was unbeaten in his first 19 bouts before being stopped in a title fight in November, to manage him. “I’ve always thought I was a better technical boxer than I’ve shown so far,” Conlan said. “I’ve been working on that with my new team, and I’m looking to show that off in this fight.” But most of all, Conlan is looking to send his legion of Irish fans back out onto the streets of Manhattan happy on this St. Patrick’s Day, and others to come. “I can’t think of a better way to spend my national holiday,” he said. “If at this time next year I could fight for a world title at the Garden on St. Patrick’s Day, that would truly be a dream.”