 LOS ANGELES — As the baseball season has grown ever longer, occasionally running past Halloween, the World Series has provided vivid imagery of the cost of playing late at night so deep into the calendar. In Series games in the Northeast and Midwest, it has become commonplace to see fans swaddled in blankets and winter wear looking no more comfortable than the players, who sometimes wear turtlenecks or hand warmers or, in more extreme cases, balaclavas that wrap around a person’s head and face. Such measures, however, will not be necessary on Tuesday, when the Houston Astros and the Los Angeles Dodgers open the 2017 World Series at Dodger Stadium. Temperatures in Los Angeles are forecast to reach triple digits on Tuesday, and when the first pitch is thrown at 5:08 p.m. Pacific time, it is expected to be right around 97 degrees — which would be a record high for a Series game. The current high mark came during the 2001 World Series, when the temperature was 94 degrees at the start of Game 1, in Phoenix, between the Arizona Diamondbacks and the Yankees. So in this instance, the familiar, mind-numbing cold of World Series games has given way to brain-melting heat, though the temperature should drop at least a few degrees as the game goes on. The forecast for Game 2 on Wednesday is almost as severe. But when the Series shifts to Houston for Games 3, 4 and 5, a retractable dome will neutralize any weather issues if the Astros choose to close it. All of this represents a drastic swing from recent World Series weather, especially considering that Game 2 of last year’s Series between the Indians and Chicago Cubs had a game-time temperature of 43 degrees in Cleveland. The unusual heat in Los Angeles also comes amid a period of extreme weather events around the country, such as the devastating hurricanes that have hit Puerto Rico, Texas and Florida; temperatures of over 100 degrees in Portland in August and San Francisco last month; and the wildfires that have raged through parts of California. “For Angelinos, October is Santa Ana season,” said William Patzert, a climatologist with NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, which is about 10 miles northeast of Dodger Stadium. Santa Ana winds blow toward the Pacific Ocean when a high-pressure system builds over the Great Basin desert in Nevada. That pushes winds through the high desert and three mountain passes — Cajon, Banning and Santa Clarita River — at speeds ranging from 30 to 50 miles per hour. “As they drop down into the basin where Dodger Stadium is, they tend to heat up and dry out,” Patzert said. “What we’re expecting in the next couple days is record-breaking heat.” This could be not-so-welcome news for the starting pitchers in Game 1, Clayton Kershaw of the Dodgers and Dallas Keuchel of the Astros. Dodger Stadium, which sits in Chavez Ravine in the hills just above downtown Los Angeles, is one of baseball’s more pitcher-friendly ballparks — especially at night. This is due to not only the stadium’s dimensions, with its ample 385-foot power alleys, but also Los Angeles’s weather patterns. Normally, mornings bring an offshore flow, as warm air is carried out toward the ocean. In the afternoon, the winds often shift, bringing in a moist, heavier marine layer that benefits pitchers, weighing down long drives that might normally leave the ballpark. If that marine air is absent, replaced by warm, dry and thin air from the Santa Ana winds, it could be a boon for lineups with plenty of pop. The Astros were second in the American League with 238 home runs, while the Dodgers were fourth in the National League with 221. Keuchel, though, did not seem to mind. “This weather is always beautiful,” he said Monday. “It’s that dry heat.” Asked if it was hot enough to make him consider shaving his bushy, chest-length beard, Keuchel laughed. “Well, if it’s hot enough for four wins, I’ll shave it for sure,” he said. For a long time, weather was less of an issue in the World Series. Until the postseason was expanded in 1969, the World Series wrapped up much earlier in October. And until 1971, when Commissioner Bowie Kuhn persuaded NBC to begin broadcasting some World Series games at night, postseason games were played exclusively during the day. Kuhn, sensitive to criticism over the move away from traditional day baseball, sat in the stands without an overcoat during Game 2 of the 1976 World Series, even though others around him shivered as they watched the Yankees play the Reds in Cincinnati. In 1979, Kuhn prohibited the Baltimore Orioles and Pittsburgh Pirates from wearing ski caps during warm-ups or in the dugout, even though it was 41 degrees at the start of Game 1. After Kuhn was long gone, the postseason calendar kept expanding. Division series were added in 1995 to supplement the league championship series that had begun 26 years before. And then a wild-card game was added for each league in 2012. The extended postseason action has created the opportunity for more bone-chilling nights when the Series takes place in cities like Boston, New York, Denver, Detroit, Chicago or Philadelphia. After a frigid 2006 World Series, when the St. Louis Cardinals and the Detroit Tigers improvised to keep warm when the temperature dipped below 40 degrees, the New Era apparel company persuaded Major League Baseball to allow it to develop three types of cold-weather accouterments: knit ski caps, balaclavas and fleece-lined baseball caps with ear flaps, which drew comparison to cartoon character Elmer Fudd’s hunting cap. The gear came in handy in 2008, when the Phillies and Tampa Bay Rays had to play in wet, windy and cold conditions in Philadelphia. Dodgers outfielder Curtis Granderson pondered the weather’s effects on the postseason in 2006, when he played for the Tigers. “Since spring training, outside of maybe the first few weeks in April, it’s been nice weather all season,” he recalled thinking that year. “Now we’re trying to determine the best teams in baseball and it’s anywhere from 20 to 50 degrees colder than you’ve been playing all season long? Has anyone thought about this?” Such considerations will not be necessary on Tuesday. Neither will the balaclavas, scarves and wool coats. The fans who fill Dodger Stadium are far more likely to be wearing tank tops and flip flops while they watch the Astros and Dodgers trying to beat each other — and the heat.