 BOSTON — Officials in Boston voted on Thursday to rename Yawkey Way, a road adjacent to Fenway Park that was named for a former Red Sox team owner who resisted efforts to integrate baseball in the 1950s. The street will revert to being called Jersey Street, its original name before it was changed in 1977 to honor the owner, Tom Yawkey, who had died the year before. The Red Sox, under Yawkey, were the last team in baseball to sign a black player, finally calling him up in 1959, 12 years after Jackie Robinson first played for the Brooklyn Dodgers. The street name came under renewed scrutiny in August, as dozens of Confederate monuments were being removed across the United States. The current team owner, John Henry, led the push to rename the street, telling The Boston Herald he was “haunted” by the team’s racist history. The Red Sox formally asked the city to rename the street in February, saying that “restoring the Jersey Street name is intended to reinforce that Fenway Park is inclusive and welcoming to all.” The narrow, two-block street lined with gift shops and eateries pulsates on game days, and is the meeting point for ballpark tours on days off. Many pedestrians walking by Fenway Park on Thursday said they were pleased with the decision by the Public Improvement Commission to change the street’s name. “It’s difficult because he did a lot for the city,” Joshua Baca, 23, said of Yawkey. “But we just shouldn’t have tolerance for racism.” Tisha Johnson, 41, agreed. “I’m happy they’re switching it because he represents racism,” she said. One of her friends, Carol Holley, 32, said she was glad too, but that it probably would do little to diminish what she said were racist attitudes in the city today. “People will still have the same thoughts,” Ms. Holley said. Others were not happy about the change. “It’s part of the heritage of Fenway Park, and it’s been here forever,” said Mark Ware, 54. “I don’t really know how racist he was, but the club has improved, the racism is gone now and they have players who are minorities,” he said. The decision promises to inflame debates about the legacy of Yawkey, who is a member of the Baseball Hall of Fame. The Yawkey Foundations, a major charity in Boston, said on Thursday that the campaign to remove the name “has been based on a false narrative about his life and his historic 43-year ownership of the Red Sox.” Renaming the street, the charity said, “will unfortunately give lasting credence to that narrative and unfairly tarnish his name, despite his unparalleled record of transforming the Red Sox and Fenway Park and supporting the city he loved through his philanthropy.” In a statement, the Red Sox said the vote was “an important step in our ongoing effort to make Fenway Park a place where everyone feels welcome.” “We recognize we have a long way to go, but remain committed to building a spirit of diversity, inclusivity, and openness within our front office and our ballpark,” the team said. No matter what people thought about the name change, virtually no one on Yawkey Way on Thursday seemed to like the name Jersey Street or understand what it represented. At the official Red Sox team store on the street, several people were buying up “Yawkey Way” bumper stickers. Tim Pettit, one of the managers of the store, said the signs “were never a huge seller,” though interest had picked up since talk of the name change began last year. He said he did not know whether the signs would be discontinued when the current stock runs out. But, he said, “I’m guessing this will be the last run.”