 The crowded field of candidates running for the presidency of U.S. Soccer was trimmed on Wednesday night, but only barely. U.S. Soccer announced in a statement that eight of the nine announced candidates for the position had submitted the required three nominations to be eligible to run for the post, but the federation declined to name those individuals because it had been unable to complete background checks for at least two of them. Several of the candidates, including the former men’s national team players Eric Wynalda, Kyle Martino and Paul Caligiuri and the former women’s goalkeeper Hope Solo, have publicly declared that they had the required nominations, and the first person in the race, the Boston lawyer Steve Gans, was reported to have his as well. Two veteran soccer executives running, the federation vice president Carlos Cordeiro and the Soccer United Marketing president Kathy Carter, were less public about their nominations, but given their experience and connections in the game it would be improbable that they would have entered the race without the required support. The only others to declare for the race are Michael Winograd, a lawyer from New Jersey who said on Twitter that he had “more than” the required number of nominations, and the Massachusetts soccer official Paul Lapointe. The ninth announced candidate, at least, knows their fate; that candidate, a U.S. Soccer official said, was rejected for failing to submit the required nominations by Tuesday’s midnight deadline. All of the candidates are pursuing a job long held by Sunil Gulati. Gulati, who had run unopposed in each of his campaigns for the post he has held since 2006, announced last week that he would not seek a fourth term. It was unclear Wednesday how long it would take to complete the remaining background checks, but U.S. Soccer said that — out of fairness — it would not announce the full list of candidates by name until all the required checks were complete. U.S. Soccer will elect its new president in February at its annual meeting in Orlando, Fla. The votes are split among the federation’s youth, adult, and pro councils, which each get a 25 percent share; and its athletes council, which accounts for 20 percent. The remaining 5 percent is made up of board members, life members and a fan representative.