 WASHINGTON — Patrick Ewing does not stalk the sideline as much as he looms over it. No longer the lithe 7-footer who dominated the paint and beyond for much of his 15 seasons with the Knicks in a 17-year Hall of Fame N.B.A. career, he now strikes a pose as a 55-year-old rookie head coach that is visually not unlike that of John Thompson, who recruited Ewing to Georgetown in 1981 and advised him to return last spring as a replacement for Thompson’s son John III. Much like the elder Thompson, Ewing is a bespectacled bear of a man. Bullish, not bombastic. In a pre-New Year’s home matchup against a more highly regarded Butler team — Ewing’s debut as a coach in the Big East Conference — he watched calmly and contentedly as his team played its finest 20 minutes of the young season, building an 18-point halftime lead. Standing for all but a few seconds, Ewing called plays with an array of hand signals, occasionally barking out orders to “swing the ball,” or “push it” up court. He wasn’t shy in scolding players during timeouts; a recent video of him tearing into forward Marcus Derrickson for questionable shot selection has made the internet rounds. “Step back one-legged — what kind of shot is that?” Ewing demanded. “Have you ever shot that shot? Do you work on that shot?” But with the ball in play against Butler, Ewing did not dramatically stamp his feet or pompously pump his fists like many of his more demonstrative peers. “I do celebrate or get angry, but I try not to overly do it,” he said the day after the Butler game. “I don’t want to embarrass anyone or embarrass myself.” No surprise there. As a player, Ewing was never the type to pontificate or preen, to dwell on much more than the moment at hand. Hard work was his M.O., his brand of quiet leadership. A lasting image is of him on the Knicks’ bench during timeouts, in a seat closest to a box of tissue wipes, sweating as if in a steam room. Some have speculated that Ewing’s playing-career-long aversion to publicity, an insulation he supposedly developed as a defense against racism encountered in high school around the Boston area, hindered his yearslong pursuit of a head coaching job in the N.B.A. His playing scowl ultimately dissolved into a more sanguine public face across 14 years as an assistant or associate head coach in four league cities, but John Thompson — known around D.C. parts as Big John — never subscribed to the personality theory in the first place. “I think it was more that there’s a stereotype about centers,” he said, alluding to the rare giants who have wound up in coaching. “People tend to attribute thinking on the basketball court to guards. It’s a fallacy because, you know, there have been a lot of dumb guards.” In recent years, Thompson said, with the pro game more perimeter-dominant than ever, Ewing’s case became even harder. As he did when John III coached the Hoyas, Thompson attends Georgetown home games at the downtown Capital One Arena. But as Ewing’s team ran off a string of victories against lower-profile programs to begin the season, Thompson largely stayed out of sight and reporters’ range, giving his protégé space. For the Butler game, though, Thompson occupied a baseline seat that was only a firm bounce pass away from the Georgetown bench, indicating he thought Ewing had aced his initiation. Approached at halftime, he snapped, “What do you want?” Then he offered an adjacent seat and said, “If I wasn’t mean, you wouldn’t know it was me, would you?” This veneer of crankiness was a playful reference to the early-to-mid-1980s, when the Ewing-powered Hoyas reached three Final Fours and Thompson’s program had an air of unapproachability that even had a name: Hoya Paranoia. “A lot of things we did was attributed to paranoia, but it wasn’t,” Thompson said. “It was the decisions we made as an educational institution. And in Patrick’s case, it was because of his talent and the demand being so much higher on him. Listen, Patrick has never been an antisocial person — he’s been a private person. He’s always been very unselfish, and a lot of those times he didn’t want to do things it was because he wanted other people to get some attention.” Thompson made the initial call to Ewing after his son’s dismissal last year, suggesting he declare his candidacy to the university’s administration, though Thompson bristled at the notion of extended family nepotism. “It wasn’t as much as keeping it in the family as much as it was getting a guy who we all thought would be pretty damn good as a coach and who would work hard,” he said. “The surprising thing to me is people’s reactions to the fact that he is doing a good job. The man coached for a lot of years, and you’d have to be an idiot to think he wasn’t prepared for this.” Ewing had fancied himself ready and deserving, but only for a pro head job. News of the Georgetown vacancy initially had him concerned about his own son, Patrick Jr., who had been on John III’s staff. (A university nepotism rule has prevented Ewing from retaining him.) He told Thompson he would sleep on the possibility of shelving his pro coaching dream. Then he called, among other people, Chris Mullin, his friend and old Big East rival, who two years earlier had transitioned from an N.B.A. executive’s life to head coach at his alma mater, St. John’s. In a telephone interview, Mullin said he and Ewing had spoken in detail “about how the N.B.A. is not that different unless you’re coaching one of those veteran teams, and how some of my players at St. John’s have been older than a lot of the guys in the N.B.A. — which means you essentially work on the same fundamental things.” Mullin stressed to Ewing that opportunities like theirs would become increasingly rare: N.B.A. stars who had stayed long enough at a university to establish a lasting relationship. When Ewing and Mullin went at it as four-year collegians, Georgetown-St. John’s games reflected a conference that had risen fast soon after formation in 1979. The reconfigured Big East grouping of so-called basketball schools has also quickly earned respect, along with the 2016 national championship won by Villanova. But St. John’s and Georgetown, which once ruled the league, have lagged behind. The Hoyas made the Final Four in 2007 under John Thompson III, and they were fairly consistent winners until the last two seasons, when they lost 18 games in each. One persistent problem is that Georgetown, like St. John’s, has struggled to attract premier homegrown talent. When Ewing and Mullin collide for the first time as coaches on Tuesday night at Madison Square Garden, they will be the primary attractions, battling for supremacy in a building both consider home. “Chris knows that it’s my house,” Ewing said, laughing. “It was his in college and then it was mine with the Knicks, and he’s trying to take it back again.” To which Mullin, a native Brooklynite, said: “I grew up there and came back. Patrick was put there by the N.B.A.” The Big East has embraced the story line and views the game as a national marketing event, said Stu Jackson, the conference’s associate commissioner and Ewing’s onetime coach with the Knicks. Jackson took in the Georgetown-Butler game, sitting near Thompson. “It will feel like a classic Big East battle,” he said of the Ewing-Mullin showdown. Alas, St. John’s (10-6) and Georgetown both now sit in the bottom half of the league standings. The Hoyas (11-4, mostly thanks to their forgiving early season schedule) lost their top two scorers from last season and are young, especially in the backcourt — an unfortunate irony for Ewing, who waited in vain his entire Knicks career for a backcourt co-star. In the second half against Butler, the Bulldogs’ Kelan Martin and Kamar Baldwin mercilessly attacked the paint as their team steadily climbed back into the game. Butler tied it on a tap-in at the buzzer of regulation, did so again with two free throws late in overtime, and finally escaped with a 91-89 double-overtime victory. It was a second gut-wrenching defeat for Ewing, the Hoyas having lost another upset bid in overtime against Syracuse in mid-December. After the game, he answered reporters’ questions wearily — and warily. Chairs on both sides of him, reserved for Georgetown players, remained empty. Call it a case of Ewing being protective of his players, as Thompson was for him. Or consider it a re-enactment of Hoya Paranoia. The methodology endures. The next day, Ewing called a midday practice that was scheduled to end around 1 but lasted 90 minutes longer. The gymnasium walls could not contain his dissatisfied voice. But a smiling Ewing ambled out afterward, affectionately greeting one of the reporters he had treated with a chronic indifference for a decade and a half in New York. He was told that the foul call that had saved Butler in overtime was questionable at best. “Don’t get me started on that,” he said. Yes, head coaching could be cruel; he knew that long before he ever thought it might be for him, which wasn’t until Michael Jordan invited him to join the Washington Wizards’ staff soon after Ewing’s retirement as a player. “Try coaching,” Jordan said. “If you don’t like it, we’ll move you to the front office.” “So I tried coaching,” Ewing said, “and fell in love with it.” He was asked if, before accepting the Georgetown job, he had needed to state his terms of independence, understanding how much of a presence Big John had remained at Georgetown, where the new practice facility bears the Thompson name, and a bronze statue of the iconic coach greets visitors in the lobby. “I’m a grown man, been living my life, doing things my way for all these years,” Ewing said. “Coach Thompson is a great figure in my life, and if I have a problem I’ll always pick up the phone. But at the end of the day, the decision to do anything is mine.” What would it mean to him to restore Georgetown to what it was, given his roots there? He considered the question, then pointed a finger: “I can’t put that in writing — you’re trying to get me fired!” But with a hearty laugh, the veneer of Hoya Paranoia vanished. “One of the things I’ve tried to tell people is that this is not going to happen overnight — it’s a step-by-step process,” Ewing said. “It’s not Patrick Ewing the player walking through the door. But you can say my goal here is to be as successful as Coach Thompson.” Having said a mouthful, he stood up tall and announced it was time to go see a potential high school recruit who was in Washington for a holiday tournament. Sending an unwitting message to Mullin, he said, “A New York kid at that.”