 After clearing away the fog of a dull Super Bowl rematch, here are our takeaways from N.F.L. Week 7: ■ The Falcons offense is in total disarray. Two short field goal attempts, two 1st-and-goals, and the formerly high-powered Atlanta offense came away with just one garbage time touchdown and seven points in a blowout loss to New England. Last week, the team had a 17-0 lead midway through the second quarter, but then were shut out in the second half of a 20-17 loss. There is something terribly broken for the Falcons, who seem unwilling to commit to running the ball, and there was no indication Sunday night that they knew how to fix things. ■ The Dallas Cowboys’ M.V.P. may be Paul A. Crotty, the United States district judge who granted a temporary restraining order blocking the N.F.L. from enforcing Ezekiel Elliott’s six-game suspension. Given the chance to get back out onto the field, Elliott had two rushing touchdowns in the first quarter and a 72-yard touchdown reception in the third quarter, powering the Cowboys to an easy win over San Francisco and getting his team’s record back to .500. ■ Aaron and Brett weren’t enough for Green Bay. No, not Aaron Rodgers and Brett Favre. The Packers relied on Aaron Jones and Brett Hundley to provide the team’s offense, and that was not nearly enough against Drew Brees and the New Orleans Saints. It did not help that Brees had 300 passing yards for the seventh consecutive time against Green Bay. ■ The Jaguars are, apparently, going to finish 9-7. In every odd-numbered week this season, Jacksonville has looked dominant. In every even-numbered week, the team has lost. You would think that would lead to an 8-8 record, but the Jaguars have a bye in Week 8, so the path is cleared for the team’s first winning record since 2007 as long as this pattern keeps up. ■ There are no “infinity” streaks. Joe Thomas, the 10-time Pro Bowler at left tackle for Cleveland, was forced to leave a game with an injury for the first time in his 11-year career. The triceps injury ended a streak of 10,336 consecutive snaps played by the Browns icon, and could lead him to miss the rest of the season pending the results of an M.R.I. ■ Hollywood can put off the big-screen treatment for Arizona’s grizzled veterans. Last week it looked as if Carson Palmer and Adrian Peterson were ready for a buddy comedy about aging players finding a way to keep up with the N.F.L.’s youngsters, but time officially caught up with both in a blowout loss to the Los Angeles Rams. Palmer broke his left arm, and Peterson ran for just 21 yards. Here’s a look at what happened in N.F.L. Week 7: There was no epic collapse for the Atlanta Falcons this time, as the rematch of last season’s Super Bowl was completely devoid of drama, with the New England Patriots walking away with an easy 23-7 victory. The win improved New England’s record to 5-2, while dropping Atlanta to 3-3. Coming into the game, the Falcons were unwilling to rehash the team’s failure to hold onto a 28-3 lead in Super Bowl LI, but they should have been focusing more on their team’s offensive struggles. The Falcons were shut out for three quarters on Sunday night before a garbage time touchdown pass from Matt Ryan to Julio Jones ended a scoring streak that had encompassed five entire quarters and a total of 91 minutes and 30 seconds of game clock. In a sign of how difficult things have been for the Falcons in the last few weeks, the lone touchdown pass by Ryan was very nearly intercepted by Malcolm Butler before Jones wrestled it out of the cornerback’s hands. Tom Brady completed 21 of 29 passes for 249 yards and two touchdowns, the Patriots had five players combine for 162 rushing yards, and Stephen Gostkowski chipped in with three field goals in the laugher. The Falcons, who had the N.F.L.’s top offense during their run to the Super Bowl last season, managed 343 yards, but just seven points, against a defense that had allowed the third-most points a game of any team in the N.F.L. Before Sunday’s victory, the Patriots had allowed every quarterback they faced this season to surpass 300 passing yards, but Ryan, in a difficult day, completed 23 of 33 passes for 233 yards. In an on-field interview after the game, Butler said the Patriots fixed their defensive problems through better communication, and they came in expecting the Falcons to have some extra motivation in the game. “We knew this team was going to come in here fired up after two straight losses,” Butler said. “We just had to match their intensity.” Atlanta will try to end their three-game losing streak next week against the Jets, while the Patriots will host the Los Angeles Chargers. A temporary restraining order brought Ezekiel Elliott back to the Dallas Cowboys this week, and he took full advantage of his suspension being delayed yet again by scoring three touchdowns as the Cowboys demolished the San Francisco 49ers, 40-10. Elliott, who received a six-game suspension before the season as a result of a lengthy investigation into domestic violence allegations, has yet to miss a game, as the courts have repeatedly delayed the suspension. He won the latest legal round when a federal judge agreed to halt the suspension until Elliott can get a hearing before a presiding judge. His status for the rest of the year could be decided in the next two weeks. On Sunday, Elliott was again the centerpiece of the Cowboys offense, racking up 219 yards from scrimmage, running for two touchdowns and getting a third on a 72-yard catch-and run. Dak Prescott was nearly as good, completing 16 of 25 passes for 234 yards and three touchdowns. His first touchdown was a nifty one-handed grab by Jason Witten. His second was the 72-yarder to Elliott. His third moved Dez Bryant into a tie with Bob Hayes for the franchise record in receiving touchdowns. It was Prescott’s third consecutive game with three or more touchdown passes and his numbers would likely have been higher if he was not taken out in the fourth quarter with the Cowboys up by 30 points. The Cincinnati Bengals did their best to keep up with their division rivals, but the Pittsburgh Steelers pulled away in the second half of a 29-14 victory, which improved the team’s record to 5-2. A week after their offense finally seemed to get right, the Steelers’ Big Three were at it once again. Ben Roethlisberger threw for 224 yards and two touchdowns, Le’Veon Bell had 192 yards from scrimmage, and Antonio Brown had 65 receiving yards and a touchdown, with the stars leading an effort that produced 420 total yards. For fun, the Steelers added in a 44-yard pass from Robert Golden to Darrius Heyward-Bey on a fake punt in the fourth quarter. The Steelers, who have sometimes struggled to maintain balance on offense, are now 16-0 all-time in regular season games in which Bell runs the ball more than 23 times. Andy Dalton had two passing touchdowns in the first half, but the Steelers made adjustments at halftime, and intercepted him twice in the second half while shutting out the Bengals in the game’s final 37 minutes. Dalton had just 34 passing yards in the second half. Days after the N.F.L. declined to change its rule on the national anthem, about two dozen players protested around the league. About two dozen players around the league protested during the anthems before the early games. Some players knelt, others sat, stayed in the tunnel or raised a fist. On Sept. 25, a day after President Trump said players should be fired for protesting during the anthem, more than 200 protested in a show of solidarity. This week, the Seahawks and 49ers led the way. Seattle defensive end Michael Bennett and seven Seahawks teammates did not stand before their game with the New York Giants. And in San Francisco, about a half-dozen 49ers knelt led by Eric Reid, Marquise Goodwin, rookie linebacker Reuben Foster, Eli Harold, Adrian Colbert and K’waun Williams. All the Dallas Cowboys stood. David Irving, a defensive lineman for the Cowboys, had vowed to demonstrate during the national anthem despite Jerry Jones having said he would bench any player that knelt during the song. Irving walked back his comments on Saturday, and then offered a mild protest, raising his fist as the song was about to end. Russell Wilson threw three second-half touchdown passes, and the Seattle Seahawks limited the Giants’ receiver-depleted offense to 177 yards in a 24-7 victory on Sunday at MetLife Stadium. The Giants had lost their first five games before stunning the Broncos last Sunday night in Denver. Wilson hit Doug Baldwin with a go-ahead 22-yard touchdown pass midway through the third quarter. Wilson added a 38-yard touchdown throw to Paul Richardson on a play that was reviewed because of simultaneous possession, and he put the game away with a 1-yard pass to Jimmy Graham with 2 minutes 14 seconds to go. The Seahawks (4-2) limited the Giants (1-6) to 46 yards rushing, 14 first downs and just 24:34 in time of possession. The defense forced only one turnover, a fumble by quarterback Eli Manning, but it led to the Richardson touchdown. — Associated Press Read Bill Pennington’s Seahawks-Giants game report here. The Dallas Cowboys have continued to roll in the second half, adding two more touchdowns, including a 72-yard catch-and-run by Ezekiel Elliott — his third touchdown of the game. But with the team’s place-kicker, Dan Bailey, sidelined by a groin injury, they have had to rely on Jeff Heath, a safety, for extra-point attempts. Heath barely made his first attempt, with the ball sailing toward the right upright before going in, but he badly missed his second attempt, which came after a 2-yard touchdown run by Dak Prescott. The Cowboys are up 33-3 at the start of the fourth quarter. The Denver Broncos lost to the undermanned Giants last week, and this week they were blanked by the Los Angeles Chargers, 21-0. Once again, Denver’s offense has failed to make a dent, while the team’s defense was unable to stop Philip Rivers and the Chargers’ passing attack. The defense was also forced to watch as the team’s punting unit allowed a 65-yard return touchdown to Travis Benjamin. Last week’s turn-back-the-clock performances from Carson Palmer and Adrian Peterson are distant memories. Palmer was ineffective and broke his left arm, Peterson ran for just 21 yards and the Arizona Cardinals were crushed 33-0 by the Los Angeles Rams. The Cardinals were outclassed in virtually every aspect of the game, with the Rams gaining 425 yards to Arizona’s 193, and 28 first downs to Arizona’s 10. For the Rams, everything seemed to click. Todd Gurley ran for 106 yards and a touchdown, Jared Goff was fairly efficient, and Greg Zuerlein chipped in with four field goals and three extra points. Arizona came into the game with high hopes after piling up 38 points last week in a win over Tampa Bay. Palmer threw three touchdown passes in that game, and Peterson ran for 134 yards and two touchdowns. But this week, with the team having traveled to London to play in Twickenham Stadium, the Cardinals’ age caught up on them. Palmer had 122 passing yards and one interception before leaving with his non-throwing arm broken. Peterson got just 11 carries, but did nothing with them, as his longest run went for six yards. Drew Brees threw his 500th career passing touchdown, and the New Orleans Saints fought back in the second half to beat the Green Bay Packers, 26-17. Forced to start a game without Brett Favre or Aaron Rodgers for just the eighth time in the last 25 years, the Packers got a decent first half from Brett Hundley, but as the game wore on the Saints chipped away, going ahead to stay when Wil Lutz hit a 44-yard field goal with 10:26 left in the fourth quarter. Brees then put the game out of reach late in the fourth quarter by diving over a pile at the goal line for a 1-yard touchdown run. Hundley, who completed 12 of 25 passes for 87 yards and one interception did provide some excitement with a 22-yard touchdown run that involved him colliding with defenders at the goal line. But he was not able to consistently move the ball when his team needed conversions. Brees, whose 22-yard touchdown to Brandon Coleman was the 476th regular season score of his career (he has 24 playoff touchdowns) threw for 331 yards, becoming the first quarterback in N.F.L. history to surpass 300 yards against one opponent in seven consecutive meetings. The loss for Green Bay at home dropped the team to 4-3 and negated another strong performance by Aaron Jones, the rookie running back, who appears to have supplanted Ty Montgomery as the team’s starter. Jones had 17 carries for 131 yards and got the first score of the game on a 46-yard touchdown. The Chicago Bears only got 153 yards from the team’s offense, but a pair of defensive touchdowns by Eddie Jackson provided all of the scoring the team needed in a 17-3 victory over the Carolina Panthers. Jackson returned a fumbled pitch from Cam Newton to Curtis Samuel for a 75-yard score on Carolina’s opening drive, and then early in the second quarter, he intercepted Newton and wove through the defense on his way to a 76-yard score. Mitchell Trubisky is now 2-1 as a starting quarterback, though he has his team’s defense, running game and special teams to thank for it as he has yet to have more than 128 passing yards in a start. He did provide one highlight with a 70-yard pass to Tarik Cohen. The Cleveland Browns dropped to 0-7 with a 12-9 overtime loss to the Tennessee Titans. Another loss seemed secondary when, for the first time in his 11-year N.F.L. career, Joe Thomas, the superstar left tackle for the Cleveland Browns, missed a snap because of injury. Thomas, who received a great deal of publicity earlier this season when he played in his 10,000th consecutive snap, injured his triceps at the end of his 10,363rd career snap and came out of the game after receiving medical attention on the field. After the game, Thomas said he still needed to get an M.R.I. and that it was too soon to tell if he would miss the remainder of the season. Trying to remain upbeat, Thomas told reporters “It wasn’t going to be an infinity streak.” The No. 3 pick in the 2007 draft, Thomas was playing in his 167th career game, all for the Browns. Long considered one of the best players at his position, the 10-time Pro Bowler has never played in a playoff game, and is incredibly unlikely to break that streak considering his team’s winless start to the season. The Browns kept things close for much of the game, but DeShone Kizer threw two interceptions, both to Kevin Byard, and once again was benched, this time for Cody Kessler. In a game with no touchdowns, the Titans were just a tad better. The Browns’ official Twitter account seemed to have run out of optimism after the game. It was an oddly-numbered week, so the Jacksonville Jaguars were dominant. The team has alternated wins and losses all season, and in a 27-0 win over the Indianapolis Colts they won easily on both sides of the ball. The Jaguars found out shortly before gametime that Leonard Fournette, the team’s standout rookie running back, was not available because of an ankle injury sustained last week. But even without Fournette, who has scored a touchdown in each game of his N.F.L. career, the Jaguars managed 518 yards of offense against the lowly Colts. Blake Bortles threw for 330 yards and T.J. Yeldon ran for 122, but Jacksonville’s fearsome defense was even more dominant, with an incredible 10 sacks and 20 quarterback hits. For more than a century, the huddle has been one of the most defining fixtures of American football, a sacrosanct 11-man oval where the likes of Johnny Unitas reshaped plays on the fly, Joe Montana cracked jokes to soothe anxious teammates and Roger Staubach diagnosed the hurt, the tired and the “spitting mad.” But in today’s N.F.L., the huddle is slowly disappearing. Read Bill Pennington’s story here.