 The warning is taken so seriously by members of the N.B.A.’s press corps that it should be sprinkled in with the rest of the fine print on the back of every media credential, alongside the stock reminders that transmitting live game action without proper consent or seeking autographs from players is forbidden: Writing off the San Antonio Spurs, even when things look bleak, is strictly prohibited.  It’s no joke. After the Spurs’ 18 consecutive 50-win seasons, as well as the unforgettable manner in which they shook free from a five-season title drought to nearly win back-to-back championships in 2013 and 2014, there is great trepidation within the hoops punditry to proclaim this the season that Gregg Popovich finally misses the playoffs for the first time since 1996-97. Even with Kawhi Leonard’s return to the lineup delayed yet again and despite one of the league’s hardest remaining schedules, San Antonio is widely expected to find a way to snag one of the West’s final playoff spots — even after it briefly strayed outside the top eight this month. As for this particular pundit, this is as far as I’m prepared to go: 2017-18 will be remembered as the season that the Spurs were forced to cope with the sort of drama, speculation and strife that has routinely plagued the 29 other N.B.A. teams throughout the Popovich era. It will be remembered as the season that some of the Spurs’ mystique was, at the very least, smudged. It all revolves around Leonard and the monthslong spectacle surrounding the mysterious quadriceps injury that has limited him to just nine of San Antonio’s 69 games. Murmurs of discontent on both sides have been bubbling for months, with ESPN reporting in late February that the Spurs expected their All-Star swingman back on the floor by now. Leonard, meanwhile, continues to seek treatment, counsel and the ultimate clearance to return from the injury from outside the organization. It’s all rather ominous because Leonard is eligible for a “supermax” contract extension worth in excess of $200 million on July 1. Are the Spurs prepared to offer that much to a player, however dominant, when he is in uncertain health and insists on being treated by his own doctors? Does Leonard, whose loyalty was never questioned until his injury woes, indeed want to tether himself to South Texas and succeed Tim Duncan as the on-court face of the franchise? Or is it conceivable that these parties, who for so long seemed so uniquely suited for each other, are headed for an impasse that could prompt the Spurs to trade Leonard to avoid the risk of losing him in free agency in the summer of 2019? What can be safely concluded at this juncture is that the Spurs haven’t been confronted with this much uncertainty since the summer of 2000, when Duncan unforgettably flirted hard with fleeing to the Orlando Magic. Some on the inside with the Spurs will counter that before this Leonard flap, there actually were a few flare-ups of tension behind the scenes in the intervening years. The public simply never heard much about them, according to the disclaimer, perhaps because no sports organization is better at concealing its soap operas than the Spurs. But the veteran Spurs swingman Danny Green conceded in a recent interview that dealing with the stream of headlines about the club’s tenuous relationship with Leonard — which Green called “mostly just talk and rumors” — is among the many adjustments that the Spurs have been coping with in their second season post-Duncan. “Usually you don’t hear any of that stuff around this organization,” Green acknowledged. As a longtime observer of the San Antonio machine from relatively close range, I’d say what has changed is that the Spurs’ centerpieces — Leonard and the All-Star forward LaMarcus Aldridge — are true modern-day stars who want to do things on their terms. This, of course, is the norm pretty much everywhere else in the basketball universe in these days of Player Power, with Cleveland’s LeBron James as the league’s foremost flexer. But it’s a serious departure for the Spurs, who enjoyed 19 seasons of Duncan willingly doing things San Antonio’s way — and everyone else in silver and black falling in line. After its failed pursuit of Jason Kidd in the summer of 2003, San Antonio largely avoided big-name free agency for the next decade, until the summer of 2015, when the Spurs won the Aldridge sweepstakes thanks largely to some surprisingly dogged recruiting by their famously gruff coach. Popovich then surprised us all to an even greater degree in January, when he revealed that Aldridge last summer became the first Spur he had ever coached to request a trade. Popovich took the blame and vowed to use Aldridge offensively in the manner he preferred after a substandard 2016-17 campaign, which had the Spurs weighing whether to trade him. But Leonard, after finishing third and second in Most Valuable Player Award voting the past two seasons, is San Antonio’s most important player. So the resultant frenzy to try to pinpoint the true source of the media-shy Leonard’s supposed discontent has been nonstop, whether it is dismay with how his injury was initially diagnosed, fears that he won’t be offered the most free-agent money San Antonio can give or the fact that the Spurs have done so much to mollify Aldridge. Popovich appeared to give us a window into the Spurs’ frustrations on Feb. 22 when he announced that he would be “surprised” if Leonard returned at all before season’s end. Longtime Pop watchers quickly concluded that Leonard was the sole intended audience for that announcement, which was predictably soon followed by Leonard’s first interview in nearly two months. He vowed to be back as soon as possible and said (albeit not in the firmest fashion) that he wanted to stay in San Antonio for the long term. Reminders of how tranquil life used to be in the Alamo City are never far away because Duncan is a frequent visitor to the team’s practice facility. It’s completely normal for him to drop in while his children are at school to get in a workout or to occasionally tutor the little-known Matt Costello, who is in his first season as a Spur on a two-way contract. Yet it’s unreasonable to expect anyone else to operate quite the way Duncan does. As often as those pesky pundits (yours truly included) painted the spotlight-averse Leonard as the perfect next-generation franchise player for the Spurs, let’s face it: There’s only one Timothy Theodore Duncan. Shame on us for expecting Leonard to be an exact copy. It’s also wise here not to underestimate Popovich, who is far more adaptable than his reputation would suggest. It’s really not hard to imagine Popovich and Leonard staging their own lunch summit after the season, as Popovich and Aldridge did, to sort this all out. Point guard Tony Parker, for one, takes comfort in the knowledge that Popovich remains the man steering the Spurs through the storm. Popovich, 69, promised Aldridge that he would stay on the bench beyond Duncan’s exit as part of his free-agent pitch nearly three years ago. And Pop, true to his word, is still there, trying to drag a team plagued by a defensive slump, constant lineup turnover because of injuries, spotty 3-point shooting and a slew of blown fourth-quarter leads through this most un-Spurs-like season. “Just one of those years so far where some things haven’t gone as they have in the past,” Popovich said, trying to find the most benign terms possible. “He’s earning his salary now,” Parker said with a laugh.