 PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — Russian sports officials said Tuesday they had started a criminal investigation into how the banned drug meldonium entered the system of the Olympic curler Alexander Krushelnytsky, whose failed test was a serious blow to Russia’s chances of rehabilitation from a doping scandal that tainted the country’s performances at the past several Olympics. Krushelnytsky’s initial failed drug test was confirmed by a second test, but Russian officials said in a statement Tuesday that the level of the drug found in his system suggested he took the drug just once, something that would be “absolutely useless and ineffective in the context of enhancing physical performance or sports results.” Krushelnytsky, who denied taking the drug found in his system, competed in mixed doubles curling with his wife, winning the bronze medal. An arbitration hearing is expected to take place Wednesday. In December, Russia’s national Olympic committee was barred from participating in the 2018 Winter Games as part of a punishment for the state-backed doping program that corrupted the 2014 Sochi Olympics. Russian athletes are participating here as neutrals. The International Olympic Committee has said the Russians could march under their own flag and wear national colors for the closing ceremony if they meet several requirements, one of which included pledging to be faithful to the global antidoping code. A decision on Russia’s status is expected Saturday, the day before the closing ceremony. The Russian doping controversy has strained relationships within the leadership ranks of the Olympics. Even before news emerged about Krushelnytsky’s failed test, several I.O.C. members had been privately suggesting that allowing Russia to restore its full status at the Pyeongchang Games risked appearing to appease Russia and could undercut efforts to play up the peacemaking presence of a North Korean delegation at the Games. Russian athletes here have largely been keeping a low profile, avoiding social media as they attempt to win over the three-person I.O.C. panel responsible for deciding their country’s fate. Deprived of several stars who were banned after an investigation into the yearslong doping program, the Russian team — its members competing under the generic label Olympic Athlete From Russia — has struggled. The curling bronze that Krushelnytsky and his wife, Anastasia Bryzgalova, may soon forfeit is one of only 11 medals won by their nation four years after it topped the medals table at the Sochi Games. No Russian has won a gold in Pyeongchang. In their statement Tuesday, Russian officials sought to tread a fine line between accepting responsibility for the doping violation and expressing doubts that Krushelnytsky had knowingly taken meldonium, a heart medicine that increases blood flow and has been banned from most sports since 2016. Krushelnytsky passed a drug test on Jan. 22 and several others before that, the Russian officials said. Meldonium, which in 2016 led to a long ban for the tennis star Maria Sharapova, usually stays in the system for months. “We express our sincere regret over the fact of the incident,” the Russian officials said in their statement. “At the same time, the circumstances of the case do not provide any answers to the questions as to how and when meldonium could have gotten into the athlete’s body.” Krushelnytsky had been at a training camp in Japan before the Games. The Russian authorities have begun what they describe as “a comprehensive investigation” of the circumstances behind the positive test, which includes a criminal investigation. Two other athletes — the Japanese short-track speedskater Kei Saito and the Slovenian hockey player Ziga Jeglic — have failed doping tests at the Games. The Russians allowed to participate in South Korea were subjected to what Olympics officials described as a rigorous testing regimen, and they have found themselves under scrutiny from testers as the event has progressed. Mark Adams, a spokesman for the I.O.C., said the Russians were by far the most tested athletes before and during the Games. Krushelnytsky and Bryzgalova were the first Russian athletes to compete, as their event, mixed doubles curling, took place before the opening ceremony. That an athlete from a sport that is perhaps not the most physically demanding at the Games has surprised others taking part in the curling competition. “I was a bit shocked this morning,” Madeleine Dupont, the skip of the Danish women’s team, said the day after news of Krushelnytsky’s failed test broke earlier this week. “I was like, ‘That cannot be true.’ But then again, people have been taking all sorts of stuff: natural medicine or lip balm or I don’t know what. So I wouldn’t really judge anyone until I knew it was on purpose.” Asked if she thought the sport’s reputation could be harmed by a doping positive, Dupont said: “I think most people will laugh and be like, ‘What would you possibly need doping for?’” Meldonium caused widespread panic and confusion among Russian athletes when it was added to the list of banned substances by the World Anti-Doping Agency in 2016. Scores of athletes, including Sharapova, tested positive for it. Meldonium is thought to enhance endurance and would possibly play a role in curling by increasing the stamina of athletes, who must be accurate with their shots, sometimes down to the centimeter. Hard sweeping can also take a toll over the course of a long match.