 LOS ANGELES — Although the traffic was abysmal, it was not the usual gridlock on city thoroughfares. Instead, the weekday congestion had spilled over into Saturday morning, and cars were now stacked up near the intersection of Stadium Way and Vin Scully Avenue. The fans who were in those cars did not yet know whom the Dodgers would be facing in Game 1 of the World Series and would not find out until that night. Nor did they seem to care. Instead, dozens of drivers in search of their M.L.B.-authenticated patch of World Series splendor sat in multiple lanes, waiting to get into the Dodger Stadium parking lot and from there into the team store. And by the time the doors to the store opened, more than 150 people were milling around outside, waiting to get in. A harried clerk, helping customers who waited upward of 30 minutes to pay for their Dodger caps and jerseys and T-shirts, said it had been even busier the day before. “It was like the Wall Street trading floor in here,” she said. The Dodgers infielder Charlie Culberson said his wife tried to step into the store Saturday afternoon after dropping him off at the clubhouse. He said she took one look at the sea of Dodger blue inside and decided against trying to wade through it. It takes quite a performance to rally the populace in a city where more stars are visible on the streets than in the sky and where entertainment is a profession for so many of its citizenry. But this year’s Dodgers have galvanized Los Angeles with their 104 regular-season victories; their relievers who have combined for 23 scoreless innings in the postseason; their presumptive rookie of the year, Cody Bellinger; their possible Cy Young winner, Clayton Kershaw; their tongue-wagging, bat-licking, hit-scorching man-child, Yasiel Puig; and their Mr. Red October, Justin Turner. For the first time in 29 years, the Dodgers are the last National League team standing in the postseason. For a proud franchise that won six championships in a 33-year span, the wait to return to the World Series has seemed biblical in its length. The end of the drought has made die-hard fans delirious and more casual followers of the team pretty fanatical, too. And so minutes after Culberson caught a line drive off the bat of the Chicago Cubs’ Willson Contreras last Thursday night for the final out that clinched the pennant for the Dodgers, Cecilia Geers went on the StubHub ticket site on her computer in search of Series tickets. She found single tickets for sale in the top deck in left field for $750, which struck her as a bargain for a once-in-a-lifetime experience. Geers, a Los Angeles native, was born 30 days after the Dodgers’ final game of the 1989 season, when they finished 77-83, a far cry from the title they had won the year before. Throughout her childhood, Geers accompanied her father to a few games every season. It was almost always at his suggestion, and he sweetened the invitation by letting her eat whatever she wanted at the concession stands. And so she gorged on soft-serve ice cream in a miniature helmet, pizza, frozen lemonade and chocolate malts, even as team after team left her hungry for something more substantial. As she grew older, her tastes matured. For the past few years, Geers has appreciated the mastery of Kershaw and the mischievousness of the Cuban-born Puig, whom she follows on social media “because he’s hilarious,” she said. In Geers’s lifetime, the Dodgers haven’t exactly been a joke; before this year they had advanced to the postseason 10 times, including four trips to the National League Championship Series. But close didn’t cut it when, in the same period, the Lakers were winning five N.B.A. titles, the Kings were winning two N.H.L. titles, and the Anaheim-based Angels and Ducks were each winning a championship. There was a reason that in January of last year, a headline in HuffPost read, “Los Angeles is a Lakers Town.” Of course, 21 months later that reads like fake news. The Lakers, seven years removed from their last championship season, are rebuilding, and Rachelle Tachiquin, who drives a black Honda sedan with a California vanity license plate that reads “DGRFN81” gets thumbs-up and honks from fellow drivers with whom she shares the overcrowded roads. “I have a lot of people stop and compliment me,” said Tachiquin, who was indeed born in 1981, when the Dodgers beat the Yankees in the Series. This time around, she will get to see every Series game in her capacity as an usher along the third-base side of Dodger Stadium. Geers, however, won’t be there. She reached out to her parents and asked if they would buy her a ticket to one of the first two Series games as a gift for her birthday, which falls on Halloween. They found the $750 price that she quoted frightful, and so, along with likely millions of other Southern Californians, Geers will have to settle for watching the telecast. But just being able to watch the games on television is a treat; because of a continuing cable dispute much of the Southern California market does not have access to telecasts of Dodgers games during the regular season. “Seeing a team you rooted for all your life finally make it, even though it wasn’t as long a drought as the Cubs had, it was still my lifetime so it’s a really big deal,” Geers said. So how much has Los Angeles changed since the Dodgers’ last World Series appearance? “There’s less smog and more traffic,” Mike Scioscia said with a laugh. Scioscia was a member of the upstart 1988 Dodgers team that won the World Series in five games over the Oakland Athletics for the franchise’s second title of the decade. Since 2000, he has managed the Los Angeles Angels, whom he led to their first World Series crown in 2002 in the franchise’s 42nd season. “Some of my friends are saying 29 years is long enough,” Scioscia said Monday by telephone. “I had to remind them that the Angels had to wait longer.” But Scioscia understands. “The Dodgers have always been a captivating force out here because of their history and tradition,” he said. “When they came here from Brooklyn they already had a national audience and the expectations are high because of that history and tradition.” The franchise also arrived in Los Angeles with Vin Scully, who began broadcasting Dodgers games in 1950 and didn’t stop until his retirement at the end of last season. The last time the Dodgers were in the World Series, Scully called the games for NBC. His voice was the cord that braided together generations of Dodgers fans. For many, this postseason has been akin to that first holiday meal without a beloved family member. “Not having Vin doing the games makes this postseason bittersweet,” said Valerie Medina, who was waiting in line Saturday to enter the team store. She had made the trip the day before only to discover that the pennants and caps she sought had sold out. “If he could come and do one game, that would be awesome. But I’m glad for him that he gets to watch the games as a fan with his family.” Online petitions to bring Scully back for the World Series collected thousands of signatures, but Scully has been adamant about remaining outside the spotlight, declining through the Dodgers an interview request. He has attended a few of this season’s playoff games as a fan, and during one such visit to Dodger Stadium, Scully stopped in the broadcast booth of his longtime friend, Jaime Jarrin, who is concluding his 59th season as the team’s Spanish-language broadcaster. Jarrin, who is from Ecuador and who from 1962 to 1984 put together a Cal Ripken-esque string of consecutive game broadcasts, described Scully as “my teacher, my idol, my mentor and my friend.” He said he told Scully, “Even though you won’t be here, you’ll be in my booth spiritually.” Still around, too, is Tommy Lasorda, who is 90 and who managed the Dodgers to their two championships in the 1980s. Back then, he sometimes held court in a booth at the Pacific Dining Car, an old-time, downtown, 24-hour eating establishment where the waiters wear pressed jackets, the walls are paneled and the tables are covered in white linen. The owner of the restaurant is Wes Idol III, whose great-grandfather opened it in 1921. Idol has a personal tie to this year’s Dodgers. In the summer of 1995, he headed to Massachusetts with a friend named John Beaton Hill to interview baseball players for a screenplay. On that trip, Idol met his friend’s 15-year-old brother. That brother, Rich Hill, would grow up to be a major league pitcher who went through a great deal of adversity on the field before becoming a crucial member of the Dodgers’ starting rotation. And once in Los Angeles, Rich Hill was also reunited with his brother, who is now a filmmaker. It’s the quintessential L.A. story; a man moves to the city in pursuit of his creative dreams. Years later, his brother joins him after an arduous baseball journey finally leads somewhere. And now the Dodgers could soon be champions. “Yes,” Rich Hill acknowledged. “It’s fun.” A lot of other people in Los Angeles would seem to agree.