 LONDON — Sebastian Coe, the Olympic champion who now runs track and field’s global governing body, has been accused of misleading a parliamentary investigation into sports doping and corruption. Coe, beloved as an athlete in Britain and the leader of the 2012 Summer Games in London, ascended to the presidency of the International Association of Athletics Federations in 2015. In a report published Monday, he faced blistering criticism over answers he gave to the group of British lawmakers about an extortion scheme run by officials, including his predecessor, which sought to blackmail Russian athletes who had failed drug tests. In a hearing and in written submissions to the digital, culture, media and sports committee, Coe said he had not been aware of specific allegations of corruption in Russian athletics before the scandal was first publicly exposed by a German television documentary in December 2014. At that time he was vice president under the I.A.A.F. president Lamine Diack. However, the report details telephone and email contact between Coe and Dave Bedford, also a former middle-distance runner and the longtime director of the London Marathon. Bedford called Coe in August 2014 to tell him that the Russian athlete Liliya Shobukhova had been forced to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars to cover up a failed drug test that would have ruled her out of the 2012 London Olympics. Coe had also been the head of the organizing committee for the London Games. Coe testified in front of the committee before details of the email emerged. He resisted a second meeting with lawmakers and instead provided a written response. He said he and Bedford had not discussed details of the plot during their phone call, and he forwarded the email to the I.A.A.F.’s ethics body without looking at its contents. In its report, the committee said, “Coe’s “answers to us about this were misleading.” It continued, “Lord Coe may not have read the email and attachments sent to him by David Bedford, whose actions we commend, but it stretches credibility to believe that he was not aware, at least in general terms, of the main allegations that the ethics commission had been asked to investigate. “It is certainly disappointing that Lord Coe did not take the opportunity, given to him by David Bedford, to make sure he was fully informed of the serious issues at stake in the Shobukhova case and their wider implications for the governance of the antidoping rules at the I.A.A.F.” The I.A.A.F. said in a statement that it had instituted major changes to its governing structures since Coe’s appearance before the committee more than a year ago. The changes include the creation of an independent integrity unit, designed to limit the influence senior officials can wield when it comes to ethics decisions. The organization also said it would contact the committee to clarify “some of the more complex aspects of antidoping that have been misunderstood.” The committee said its findings are “matters of the greatest seriousness and affect the reputation of both the I.A.A.F. and Lord Coe.” Under Coe, the I.A.A.F. has been particularly aggressive in punishing Russia for its state-backed doping program — more so than the International Olympic Committee and most sports federations. Russia’s athletics federation continues to be barred by the track and field governing body, preventing its athletes from competing internationally. By contrast the I.O.C. allowed more than 160 Russian athletes to compete as neutrals at the recent Winter Olympics, and last week lifted a ban on the country’s Olympic committee that it issued in December. Diack, the longtime leader of the track body, is among officials arrested by the French authorities because of the extortion scheme. An international arrest warrant remains outstanding for his son, Papa Massata Diack, a former marketing consultant to the I.A.A.F. The younger Diack told The New York Times in October that he helped secure votes for Coe’s successful 2015 election bid, in which he beat Sergei Bubka, the former champion pole-vaulter. Coe has denied soliciting the younger Diack’s support. “As with any campaign, lots of people offer advice — wanted or not, some helpful, some not,” a spokesman for Coe said at the time. “You try to be civil but wary. This was the case with Mr. Diack. He sent messages of support whilst at the same time supporting other candidates and accusing Seb Coe of leading a British media campaign against both him and his father.” Coe’s four-year term as president of the track organization ends next year.