 MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — Matt Moore replaced an injured Jay Cutler and threw two touchdown passes in the final 12 minutes on Sunday as the Miami Dolphins pulled off another improbable victory by erasing a 14-point deficit in the fourth quarter to beat the Jets, 31-28, in N.F.L. Week 7. Josh McCown threw three touchdown passes and ran for another score for the Jets (3-4), but his interception in the final minute set up the Dolphins’ winning field goal. Cornerback Bobby McCain gave the Dolphins the ball at the Jets’ 27-yard line with 39 seconds remaining when he stepped in front of a McCown pass intended for Jermaine Kearse. Cody Parkey then kicked a 39-yard field goal with 22 seconds to go that gave the Dolphins their first lead of the game. Jets Coach Todd Bowles said he decided to be aggressive in the final minute of a tied game because the Jets still had all their timeouts. And his quarterback had already thrown three touchdown passes. “Coach trusted me and the offense with that,” McCown said, “and we let him down.” It was the second straight comeback victory for Miami (4-2), which overcame a 17-point deficit in the second half to beat Atlanta last week. The Dolphins have won 12 games in a row when the margin is seven or fewer points. The N.F.L. record for such a streak is 14 consecutive games. “It sounds like a broken record,” said defensive end Cameron Wake, who had two and a half sacks for the Dolphins, as they avenged a 20-6 loss to the Jets last month. “It’s a belief in one another. We’ve been showing that over and over and over.” Cutler left the game because of a chest injury with his team trailing 21-14 in the third quarter. After the Jets took a 28-14 lead on a 10-yard pass from McCown to Austin Seferian-Jenkins late in the period, Moore threw a pair of scoring passes to Kenny Stills to tie the game. “That was fun, man,” said Moore, who saw his first action of the season. “It’s always fun to get a win, and then when you can contribute and have a comeback like that, it’s fun for everybody.” Against a defense that had not allowed more than 20 points in a game all season, McCown also threw for touchdowns of 29 yards to Kearse and 17 yards to Robby Anderson. McCown’s rushing touchdown came after an interception by Muhammad Wilkerson, the Jets’ 315-pound defensive lineman. With the Dolphins backed up at their 7-yard line during the second quarter, Wilkerson caught a pass that had been deflected by a blitzing Jamal Adams, and was tackled at the 1. McCown scored two plays later, giving the Jets a 21-14 halftime lead. But the Jets were shut out over the final 16 minutes 41 seconds, and McCown’s interception with 47 seconds left proved costly. “I don’t want to think about it. It makes me sick,” McCown said. “To come out on the road and get going like we did and then finish it like that is frustrating.” There were signs of a Jets meltdown at the end of the game. Anderson, who scored his touchdown in the first quarter, appeared to angrily spike his helmet in the closing seconds, and Wilkerson was heard shouting from the Jets’ closed-door locker room after the game. “A lot of frustration. You heard it,” McCown said. “There are a lot of emotions, and frustration is high on that list. The head of that frustration was, ‘Let’s rebound,’ and Mo did a good job of hammering that home.” Cutler had thrown for two touchdowns before going to the locker room after being hit by Jets linebacker Jordan Jenkins in the third quarter. Some Miami fans cheered as Moore entered the game to replace Cutler, who drew boos during his Dolphins home debut two weeks ago. Moore’s fifth pass was intercepted by Marcus Maye, whose 33-yard return set up the score by Seferian-Jenkins, the third week in a row that the tight end has reached the end zone. Moore finished 13 for 21 for 188 yards and the two scores. Regrouping will be a challenge after the Jets lost a heartbreaker for the second week in a row. Last week, a disputed call contributed to a 24-17 loss to New England. The Jets will host Atlanta next Sunday. “We have to develop a killer instinct,” Bowles said. “We had a 14-point lead; we’ve got to close the game out.”