 Hanna Oeberg of Sweden won the women’s 15-kilometer biathlon. Aksel Lund Svindal gave Norway its first men’s downhill gold on Thursday. Under a bright sky and a warm sun, Svindal turned in a gutsy run on a winding but tame course that was almost perfectly suited to him. His teammate, Kjetil Jansrud, took the silver medal, finishing 0.12 of a second behind Svindal in a triumphant showing for the country that has won more medals than any other at the Winter Olympics but is better known for its prowess in Nordic sports. Beat Feuz of Switzerland finished 0.18 of a second behind Svindal and won bronze. All three medal winners were lucky enough to be among the first 10 skiers on a day when the sun was heating up and slowing down the snow with each passing minute.  Svindal, one of the elder statesmen of the Alpine circuit at 35, blasted out of the starting gate, poling and skating his way down the initial slope. Midway through his run he lost his balance, went upright in the middle of the jump and landed on the back of his skis 20 feet down the hill. Svindal somehow regained his stability though and ended up gaining speed on the relatively flat and winding third quarter of the course where so many other races were losing time. At nearly 6 feet 3 inches and 220 pounds, Svindal had gravity on his side and crossed the finish line at 1 minute 40.25 seconds, besting the time Feuz had posted just minutes earlier. Before long, it was clear no one was going to catch the Norwegians. With a dozen skiers still at the top of the mountain, finishers began making their way over to Svindal to congratulate him. — MATTHEW FUTTERMAN Aljona Savchenko and Bruno Massot of Germany unexpectedly won the gold medal in pairs figure skating on Thursday, rebounding from fourth place after the short program with a stirring performance of passion, power and control. The Chinese pair Sui Wenjing and Han Cong, who were first after the short program, made a couple of mistakes on their jumps in the long program, and the errors proved decisive in an event decided by less than half a point.  Savchenko and Massot broke their own world record with 159.31 points for a long program. But it was not even clear that Massot would be able to compete in these Winter Olympics until November. He is a native of France and only on his third try did he pass a written exam required to gain his German citizenship. — JERE LONGMAN Full coverage: here. Mikaela Shiffrin, the almost unbeatable American slalom skier, proved she had successfully expanded her world-class repertoire by winning the 2018 Olympic giant slalom on Thursday. After putting up the second-fastest time on the first run, behind the little-known Italian Manuela Mölgg, Shiffrin skied the top of the second run with cool efficiency and a veteran’s precision. She built a huge lead that protected her against a slip-up with a handful of gates remaining.  Shiffrin’s combined time of 2:20.02 was 0.39 of a second better than that of the runner-up, Ragnhild Mowinckel of Norway. Federica Brignone of Italy won the bronze, while Mölgg slipped to eighth. Full coverage here. Hanna Oeberg of Sweden, 22, won the women’s 15-kilometer biathlon for the first significant win of her career. Oeberg hit every target — one of only two competitors to do so — and won by 24 seconds. Anastasiya Kuzmina of Slovakia was second and Laura Dahlmeier of Germany, who won the first two women’s biathlon events here, was third. Ragnhild Haga of Norway won the women’s 10-kilometer cross-country race. The American Jessica Diggins finished fifth, less than four seconds out of the medals. No American has won a cross-country medal since 1976. Pierre Vaultier of France defended his title in the snowboard cross competition, narrowly beating out Jarryd Hughes of Australia. Vaultier had almost missed the final when he crashed with two other riders in the semi. But he got back in the race and sneaked into the last qualifying spot. In what is very likely to be a preview of the gold medal game, Canada beat the United States, 2-1, in women’s hockey preliminary play. Meghan Agosta and Sarah Nurse scored for the Canadians in the second period, while Kendall Coyne got a consolation goal for the United States in the third. The U.S. missed a chance in the second period when Jocelyne Lamoureux-Davidson missed a penalty shot, shooting over the goal. Shaun White, the snowboarding legend, landed back-to-back 1440s in his final run to claim the gold medal. After holding the early lead, White had slipped to second behind Ayumu Hirano of Japan.  On his winning run, White soared high above the pipe, ran off a run of staggeringly difficult tricks and landed them all. The result, a score of 97.75, won him his third gold medal. Full coverage: here.  Jorien ter Mors won the women’s 1,000-meter speedskating race, making the Dutch team five-for-five in the sport so far at these Games. Brittany Bowe of the United States was fourth. Eric Frenzel of Germany won back-to-back gold medals in the normal hill Nordic combined event. The team of Tobias Wendl and Tobias Arlt of Germany repeated as doubles luge champions by a little less than a tenth of a second over two runs. Jan Mursak scored 38 seconds into overtime — his second goal of the game — as Slovenia rallied from a two-goal deficit in the third period to stun the United States, 3-2, in overtime in their men’s hockey opener.  In a game heavy with political overtones, Japan beat Korea’s unified women’s hockey team, 4-1. The victory was Japan’s first in three trips to the Olympics, and Korea’s goal was the only one it scored in the Games. The Koreans, bolstered by a dozen North Koreans and a handful of players raised in North America, went 0-3 and was outscored by 20-1. Full coverage here. There will be gold medals awarded in biathlon, speed skating and the luge relay. On Friday, men’s figure skating will begin, with Yuzuru Hanyu, Patrick Chan and Nathan Chen. Shiffrin goes for another gold in the slalom, her best event. 