 When the Houston Astros visit the White House this season to commemorate their World Series victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers, Carlos Beltran will not be with them. Beltran said on Tuesday President Trump did not have anything to do with his decision, but he added that he was “disappointed” with the government’s response to the damage Hurricane Maria inflicted on Puerto Rico, Beltran’s home island. Beltran, speaking at the Thurman Munson Awards Dinner in Midtown Manhattan on Tuesday, cited his desire to spend that time with his family at their New York City home as a reason for his decision. “I’m retired so I’m not really part of the team anymore,” he said. “My family is my team now.” He stopped short of criticizing President Trump specifically over the response to the hurricane damage in Puerto Rico, some parts of which are still without electrical power more than four months later. “I mean, he’s the President of the United States,” Beltran said. “Sometimes we don’t like what he does, or we like the things that he does, but at the end of the day, he’s the president. It’s got nothing to do with that.” But Beltran, who announced his retirement after finally earning a championship ring in his 20th major-league season, noted the difference in the government’s response to the damage in Puerto Rico compared with the reaction to Hurricane Harvey, which devastated Houston in August. “One thing that really impressed me a lot was how fast that city was able to get back on its feet,” Beltran said. “But the situation in Puerto Rico has been different.” He added: “We’re very disappointed in the government that we haven’t gotten the same benefits. Being a part of the United States, you expect at least to be treated the same way when tragedies like this happen.” Beltran and his wife, Jessica, donated $1 million to relief efforts in Puerto Rico in September, and he said his foundation was in the process of rebuilding 200 houses on the island. White House visits by sports champions have become more politically fraught since President Trump took office. The Golden State Warriors, the 2016-17 N.B.A. champions, said they did not want to make the traditional trip, and then the president withdrew their invitation. Some members of the Philadelphia Eagles, who won the Super Bowl on Sunday, have already said they would not go to the White House. No date has been set for the Astros’ visit to the White House. Generally, championship baseball teams visit the White House during a road trip to Baltimore. But since the Astros do not visit the Orioles until late September, the team might make the trip during spring training. “I’m not going to go, but I wish those guys the best,” Beltran said. “I hope they have a great time and enjoy their visit to the White House.”