 PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — David Wright, the Mets’ captain and longest-tenured player, understands the odds are probably against him. He is 35 and has not played in a major league game since May 2016. He has appeared in only 75 games since the start of the 2015 season. Since then, he has had three surgical procedures — for his neck, back and shoulder — and he remains affected by spinal stenosis, a chronic narrowing of the spinal canal that is at the center of his physical breakdown. And even though he is still rehabilitating in the wake of his most recent operations — for his shoulder last September and for his back a month later — he has not given up on the idea that he can still make a comeback, that there is still another chapter left in a career that was once so crammed with success. But after so many physical setbacks, Wright is also acknowledging that that chapter may never happen, that his body, in the end, can take only so much. “When it’s all said and done, I want to be able to say that I did everything I could,” Wright said as he sat in the dugout at the Mets’ spring training complex on Saturday morning. “If it works, that’s obviously the goal. If not, I’ll rest easy knowing I gave it my best shot.” Wright is an admired figure inside the Mets’ organization and across baseball. In his prime, he was a seven-time All-Star. He was destined to be the one star in franchise history who was going to play for the Mets from start to finish and put up the kind of outstanding career numbers they never had. Those numbers — a .296 career average, 242 home runs, 1,777 hits — are solid enough. But even if Wright can find a way back onto the field, they will never be what they might have been. Wright, mindful of a rehabilitation assignment that had to be abandoned, said that he had no specific timetable to return. He will let his body tell him how he is doing. “We’re at a point, certainly with the history of the last couple years and the three surgeries that I’ve had, I want to get it right,” he said. “I want to take my time.” Should Wright make a comeback, he would probably be limited in what he could do as a player. With the newly signed Todd Frazier now set to be a fixture at third base, where Wright played for so long, Wright’s most realistic option might be as a part-time first baseman and pinch-hitter, and perhaps a designated hitter in interleague games. Wright said he was appreciative of the fact that when the Mets signed Frazier — for two years and $17 million — Jeff Wilpon, the team’s chief operating officer, called to let him know what was happening. On Saturday, he did not voice any resentment about the signing. “We’re certainly a very good team without me,” Wright said when asked about Frazier. “My mind-set is that we’ll be a better team with both of us out there.” Wright is owed $47 million over the next three seasons, but depending on whether he can make any sort of comeback, the Mets can recoup much of that money through an insurance policy. Wright admitted that it was “tough to feel like you’re part of the team” when he spent so much time rehabilitating. But on Saturday, he walked into the office of the Mets’ new manager, Mickey Callaway, and asked how he could still help. “I want you to be as present as possible,” Callaway said he told Wright. “We need your leadership.” Wright will try to oblige. Whether he can ever play again, though, is another matter.