 A handful of Mets players were in town on Thursday to help host the team’s annual holiday party. Outfielder Brandon Nimmo dressed up as Santa Claus, while starter Noah Syndergaard, reliever Jerry Blevins and catcher Kevin Plawecki were his elves, handing out toys to schoolchildren at Citi Field. Understandably, much of the attention was on Syndergaard, the largest elf of them all and someone who will play a significant role in determining the Mets’ fortunes in 2018. After all, it was the partially torn right lat muscle that Syndergaard sustained last April that seemed to set the tone for the Mets’ disheartening season, in which injuries and losses kept mounting. Syndergaard did not get back on the mound until the final week of the regular season, making two appearances as a reliever. By then he had made changes in his training regimen after coming to the realization that all the weightlifting he had done the previous off-season might not have been conducted properly. Syndergaard first acknowledged that shift in thinking in an interview with The New York Times last July. And on Thursday, Syndergaard said the training changes he had made were producing positive results. “My body has never felt better,” he said. Syndergaard said the trainers he now works with had devised an off-season training and stretching routine that addressed deficiencies in his body, particularly his flexibility. Syndergaard, a Texas native, is also spending the off-season in New York for the first time in his career. Syndergaard also said Thursday that he had not stopped lifting weights, but that he was doing so more intelligently than in the past. “I’m still lifting heavy, but in a smart way,” he said. “Last year was not the most smart thing I was supposed to be doing in terms of exercises and choice.” Syndergaard said, for example, that he did a lot of pull-ups in the last off-season, an exercise that relies on the lat muscles. He said he had not done any this winter. In his quest to become a more well-rounded athlete, Syndergaard said he had also worked on his sprinting technique with a Canadian Olympic track coach. “Not that I’m trying to become an Olympic sprinter any time soon,” he said. “But I’m working on overall athleticism so I’m not running like a fat guy in flip-flops anymore.” Along with the other players in attendance, Syndergaard said he was looking forward to working with the Mets’ new manager, Mickey Callaway, and the new pitching coach, Dave Eiland. Syndergaard noted that Eiland’s off-season throwing program, which he received last month, was different than what he had seen in the past because it is “very structured, exact, precise.” Blevins added that Callaway would be the first former pitcher he had played under as a manager. "It’s nice to relate on a different level with a manager,” he said. “He seems super intelligent, and that seems the direction we want to head, and he’s very assertive and has those natural leadership abilities, just in the couple of phone calls we’ve had. I’m excited.”