 If anything, Week 14 may have made the power structure in football even more complicated. The Falcons beat the Saints on Thursday, the Panthers beat the Vikings on Sunday, and suddenly the N.F.C. South appears to be completely up for grabs. The Packers and Cowboys stayed alive, the Chiefs kept their top spot in the A.F.C. West, and it appears that the next three weeks could provide plenty of drama. Here is what we learned in Week 14: ■ There can be an extreme cost to winning. The Eagles beat the Rams, securing a division title and getting back into the top spot in the N.F.C. playoff standings, but Carson Wentz sustained a knee injury that could drastically alter the team’s progress. There is not likely to be any celebrating in Philadelphia until the Eagles have announced the prognosis for their star second-year quarterback. ■ People should not forget about the Panthers. Carolina is rarely mentioned in the same breath as the N.F.C.’s elite teams — Philadelphia, Minnesota, the Los Angeles Rams and New Orleans — but the Panthers ran right at the Vikings’ elite defense and produced 216 rushing yards, with Jonathan Stewart scoring three times. The victory gave the Panthers the same record as the Saints (New Orleans still leads the N.F.C. South via a tiebreaker) and added some intrigue to the final weeks of the season in that competitive division. ■ Dak Prescott is finding his old groove. The first three weeks of Ezekiel Elliott’s suspension were horrible for Prescott, who led the Cowboys to an 0-3 record while producing no passing touchdowns and five interceptions. In the two games since, they are 2-0, and he has five touchdowns against zero interceptions. His stats against the Giants (332 yards, three touchdowns) were inflated by his opponents’ defensive incompetence, but a few weeks ago he looked as if he would have a hard time scoring points against a college team. Dallas has one more game before Elliott returns. ■ The Chiefs can go as far as Kareem Hunt takes them. Hunt, a rookie running back, had averaged just 42 rushing yards a game over the past four weeks as Kansas City went 0-4 and had its position at the top of the A.F.C. West jeopardized by the Raiders and the Chargers. Against Oakland, Hunt ran for 116 yards on Sunday and kept his team in the top spot in the division. ■ Josh Gordon can still play football, even if the Cleveland Browns cannot. The troubled wide receiver has picked up where he left off in 2014 before his off-field troubles resulted in his being barred from on-field activities. In two games, he has seven receptions for 154 yards, and in Cleveland’s overtime loss to Green Bay, he scored his first touchdown since Dec. 15, 2013. If the Browns had a better quarterback, Gordon’s numbers would most likely be even better (and the team might not be 0-13). ■ Jimmy Garoppolo is better than C.J. Beathard and Brian Hoyer. For a second consecutive week, Garoppolo, whom the San Francisco 49ers acquired in a trade with New England, led his new team to a win. He is now 2-0 as a starter, and counting his relief work in Week 12, the 49ers have outscored their opponents by 18 points with him at quarterback. Beathard was 1-4 as a starter this season, while Hoyer was 0-6, and while some of the improvement has been the young defense gaining some maturity, it is not a coincidence that the offense has come alive under Garoppolo. Cam Newton delivered the body blow, and Jonathan Stewart provided the knockout punch for host Carolina. Newton’s 62-yard run set up Stewart’s 1-yard touchdown leap, his third score run of the day, with 1:47 remaining to lift the Panthers to victory, ending Minnesota’s eight-game winning streak. Stewart accounted for 103 of Carolina’s 216 yards rushing, including a 60-yard touchdown burst in the first quarter, against the league’s second-ranked defense, as the Panthers prevented the Vikings (10-3) from clinching the N.F.C. North division title. But it was Newton’s run that turned out to be the play of the game. After Carolina squandered an 11-point fourth-quarter lead, Newton rolled out to his left and saw an opening, and the 6-foot-5, 245-pound quarterback was off to the races before being pulled down from behind at the Vikings’ 8-yard line. The Pittsburgh Steelers won one for injured star Ryan Shazier — and wrapped up the A.F.C. North in the process. Chris Boswell made a 46-yard field goal with 42 seconds left and Pittsburgh’s defense overcame a sloppy night to stop one Baltimore’s last-gasp drive in the Steelers’ victory Sunday night. The Steelers (11-2) trailed by 11 points going into the fourth quarter but capped an emotionally trying week following Shazier’s spinal injury to rally for their eighth consecutive victory and third division title in four years. Ben Roethlisberger threw for 506 yards and two touchdowns, becoming the first quarterback in N.F.L. history to top 500 yards passing in a game three times. Antonio Brown caught 11 passes for 213 yards, including two long gains in the fourth quarter that allowed the Steelers to recover after blowing an early 14-point lead. Le’Veon Bell had 125 yards of total offense and scored three touchdowns. Baltimore’s Joe Flacco threw for 269 yards passing with two touchdowns and one interception but was strip-sacked by rookie linebacker T.J. Watt on the Ravens’ final snap. Alex Collins ran for 120 yards and a touchdown for the Ravens (7-6). LeSean McCoy scored on a 21-yard run with 1 minute 33 seconds left in overtime, securing Buffalo’s victory at home over Indianapolis in a wintry, white-out setting best suited for snow shoes and sled dogs. On a slick, snow-covered field, McCoy finished with 156 yards rushing and topped the 1,000-yard mark for the sixth time in his career. The Bills’ sideline erupted after McCoy’s touchdown, with players running onto the field to make snow angels or engage in celebratory snowball fights. Buffalo (7-6) stayed alive in the A.F.C. playoff picture, while the Colts (3-10) were mathematically eliminated from playoff contention. The game began in near white-out conditions with a lake-effect storm blowing in off Lake Erie. The snow was falling so hard a half-hour before kickoff that it was nearly impossible to see New Era Field’s west-end scoreboard from the east-end stands. McCoy’s touchdown came on Buffalo’s second possession of overtime. Facing third-and-2, McCoy found a crease up the middle and had enough footing to cut to his left and scamper into the end zone untouched. Kansas City had lost four straight games, suspended cornerback Marcus Peters, who is widely viewed as their best defensive player, and reached such a nadir offensively that Andy Reid had recently turned over play-calling duties to his coordinator. So it makes perfect sense that this would be the week they would turn everything around. Kareem Hunt churned for 116 yards and a touchdown in a performance reminiscent of earlier in the season, the defense fared just fine without Peters, and the Chiefs beat Derek Carr and visiting Oakland in a crucial A.F.C. West showdown. “To play the way we know we can play early, then to get challenged and get a rough patch and find our way out of it, I think guys have that confidence now,” said Chiefs quarterback Alex Smith, who threw for 268 yards. “All three phases were playing off each other, all three playing good team football.” The Chiefs (7-6) entered the game tied atop the division standings with the Raiders (6-7) and the Chargers, who played Washington later Sunday and are scheduled to visit Kansas City on Saturday night. Matthew Stafford passed for 381 yards with an injured throwing hand and set up Matt Prater for a 46-yard field goal in the closing seconds, helping Detroit remain in playoff contention with a victory at Tampa Bay. Stafford made his 109th consecutive start even after having been limited in practice after his right hand was stepped on during the previous week at Baltimore. He completed 36 of 44 attempts against the Bucs (4-9), and the Lions (7-6) overcame two interceptions and a fumble to stop a two-game losing streak. The rookie Mitchell Trubisky threw for a touchdown and ran for another in his best showing yet, and Chicago ended a five-game losing streak with a rout at lackluster Cincinnati, its most lopsided victory in five years. Jordan Howard ran for 147 yards and a pair of touchdowns as the Bears (4-9) dominated a matchup of the N.F.L.’s worst offenses. Trubisky took full advantage of an injury-depleted defense, completing a career-high 25 passes out of 32 attempts for 271 yards. He also ran 4 yards for a score. Green Bay saved its season just in time for Aaron Rodgers’s return. Brett Hundley threw a 25-yard touchdown pass to Davante Adams in overtime as the visiting Packers rallied from a two-touchdown deficit in the fourth quarter for a victory over winless and luckless Cleveland. Hundley pulled out his third win, and his second straight in overtime, since replacing Rodgers, and the Packers’ starting quarterback will return. Their season had appeared to be doomed when Rodgers broke his collarbone in October. “My No. 1 thought going into it was to keep our hopes alive to make the playoffs,” said Hundley, who had three touchdown passes. “At the end of the day, whatever happens, happens. Whenever I’m called upon, I’ll be ready. In the meantime, we’re still in this.” Blake Bortles threw two perfect passes for touchdowns, Jaydon Mickens set up another score with a 72-yard punt return, and Jacksonville beat Seattle. The Jaguars (9-4) intercepted three passes by Russell Wilson, including two on deep balls, and won for the sixth time in their last seven games. This victory, coupled with Tennessee’s loss at Arizona, moved Jacksonville to the top of the A.F.C. South. This is the first time since 2010 that the Jaguars have had the outright division lead so late in a season. The loss did not sit well with the Seahawks (8-5), two of whose players were ejected in the final minute. Defensive tackle Sheldon Richardson was ejected for throwing a punch during a melee that included defensive tackle Michael Bennett and Jaguars running back Leonard Fournette. More pushing and shoving occurred after the next play, and defensive end Quinton Jefferson was tossed. Jefferson tried to climb into the stands after being hit with what looked like a plastic bottle. Seattle Coach Pete Carroll was flagged for going onto the field. Carroll walked into Seattle’s huddle, possibly to calm his players down. Jimmy Garoppolo threw for a career-high 334 yards and a touchdown to help San Francisco to its second straight victory, at Houston. Garoppolo again showed that he could be the answer for the 49ers (3-10) at quarterback, completing 20 of 33 passes in his second start for the team. Acquired before the trade deadline from New England, Garoppolo threw for 293 yards in his debut with the team last week to help the 49ers to a 15-14 win at Chicago. Phil Dawson kicked four second-half field goals, and Arizona shut down Tennessee’s offense nearly all day in a victory over the visiting Titans, who had entered the game leading the A.F.C. South. Dawson connected from 47, 23, 32 and 35 yards and missed from 40 for the Cardinals (6-7), whose victory came two weeks after they beat Jacksonville on the same field. The Cardinals intercepted Marcus Mariota twice in the second half after the Titans (8-5) nursed a 7-0 lead at halftime. Philip Rivers passed for 319 yards and two touchdowns, and Los Angeles continued its ferocious playoff push with a fourth straight victory, over visiting Washington. Tyrell Williams caught a 75-yard touchdown pass, and Hunter Henry had another scoring grab for the Chargers (7-6), who have won seven of nine after an 0-4 start to their relocation season. While outscoring their opponents, 131-53, during their winning streak, the Chargers also moved above .500 for the first time since September 2015 with a dominant offensive performance against Washington. The Chargers stayed atop the A.F.C. West alongside the Chiefs (7-6), their opponents Saturday in Kansas City.