 SAN DIEGO — There was more drama near the cut line of the Farmers Insurance Open than at the top of the leader board on Friday, when Tiger Woods birdied his 18th hole to survive into the weekend. He made the 36-hole cut with no room to spare — at one under par. Needing a birdie on the 556-yard, par-5 ninth hole at the Torrey Pines North Course, Woods reached the green in two and two-putted from 80 feet, finishing with a tap-in. That closed out a second-round 71 and enabled him to make his first PGA Tour cut since August 2015. That was before chronic back problems led to several surgical procedures and two lengthy layoffs from competition. Woods finished tied for 65th, 10 shots behind the leader, Ryan Palmer (11 under), and nine shots behind the defending Farmers champion, Jon Rahm (10 under). But Woods said he was pleased merely to make a back-nine run and to be able to keep playing at a place where he has won nine tournament titles. “I grinded my way around the golf course today,” Woods said. “I didn’t quite hit it as good as I would like, but I fought hard. I chipped and putted well and posted a number. It was tough out there. The greens were firm.” When he made the turn at two over par — the result of a double-bogey 6 on the par-4 13th, where he drove his tee shot into a hazard well left of the fairway — Woods said his goal was to get under par by the end of the round. He accomplished that by making four birdies on his second nine: at No. 1, a par 4, where he rolled in a long putt; No. 5, a par-5, where he chipped his third shot close; No. 7, a 322-yard par-4, where he got up and down from deep greenside rough; and No. 9, his clincher. Equally important was a par save on No. 6, where his flop-shot wedge from deep rough stopped four feet from the cup. “My short game’s been good all week,” Woods said. “It’s been a long 12 months. I’ve been away from it for a very long time, so it’s nice to get out there and compete. I still need more rounds under my belt.” This was Woods’s first PGA Tour event since last year’s Farmers, where he missed the cut, and only his third since a tie for 10th at the 2015 Wyndham Championship in North Carolina. It was also his first tour event since spinal fusion surgery last April, which, he said, eliminated all of his pain. “This is a different body,” he said, adding: “I’m fused now. That’s why I’m excited to play the weekend. I need more time under the fire of competition.”