 Many N.F.L. teams will reach the halfway mark this week in games played, and the list of elite teams has narrowed. Teams like the Detroit Lions and the Houston Texans are looking to prove they deserve to be on that list despite records that suggest otherwise, while teams with inflated records, like the Miami Dolphins and the Minnesota Vikings, will try to keep their good luck going for another week. Here are our picks against the spread: Last week’s record against the spread: 11-3-1 Overall record: 50-55-1 Follow our live coverage of N.F.L. scores, updates and analysis here. Steelers at Lions, 8:30 p.m., NBC Line: Steelers by 3 The Steelers (5-2) have had remarkable stability in team leadership. Coach Mike Tomlin has been on the sideline for the last 11 seasons, and the team’s offensive superstars (Ben Roethlisberger, Le’Veon Bell and Antonio Brown) have been together for the last five. So, it’s especially odd for Pittsburgh to have had so much off-field drama. Bell demanded a huge new contract, Brown was critical of Roethlisberger’s production, and the team melted down about Alejandro Villanueva’s response to the national anthem controversy. The latest turbulence involves wide receiver Martavis Bryant, Pittsburgh’s deep threat, who complained his way out of the lineup. Amid all that hullabaloo, Pittsburgh has played stellar defense. In the last few weeks, it has started to pull out of its offensive funk, even while struggling with scoring in the red zone. Roethlisberger has been involving Bell and Brown more, and the team has gotten a boost from JuJu Smith-Schuster, a rookie wide receiver who is the youngest player in the N.F.L. this season. His role could expand this week with Bryant inactive, provided he clears the N.F.L.’s concussion protocol, which he is expected to do after practicing on Wednesday. The Lions (3-3), though, are a dangerous opponent at home. Two of their losses have been of the hard-luck variety, and last week’s double-digit loss to New Orleans included a hectic rally that fell apart when Matthew Stafford threw a pair of interceptions late in the fourth quarter, one of which was returned for a touchdown. Detroit’s defense is not nearly as crisp as Pittsburgh’s, but it can be just as opportunistic. If Roethlisberger is at all careless with his passes, Detroit will make him pay for it. Golden Tate’s being limited, or possibly inactive, with a sprained AC joint takes some jolt out of the Lions’ offense, but this should be a close game. Pick: Steelers 49ers at Eagles, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Eagles by 13 The 49ers (0-7) are very bad. The Eagles (6-1) are very good. It is not hard to predict that Philadelphia will take care of business at home against a winless opponent, but a spread of 13 points is demanding a blowout, and San Francisco’s plucky young defense may be up to the task of preventing that from happening. As good as the Eagles have been, they have kept things close in four of their six wins, and they have little reason to try to run up the score against an overmatched opponent. Pick: 49ers Texans at Seahawks, 4:05 p.m., CBS Line: Seahawks by 5.5 Thanks to the emergence of Deshaun Watson, the Texans (3-3) have averaged 39.3 points a game over the last four weeks. The hype has been deafening, but in reality, he has yet to face a very challenging defense. That ends this week, as the Seahawks (4-2) are the type of team that has the combination of talent and veteran know-how to truly mess with a rookie quarterback’s mind. A victory might be too much to ask for, but Watson is talented enough to keep things close, making a 5.5-point spread a bit too generous. Pick: Texans Cowboys at Redskins, 4:25 p.m., Fox Line: Cowboys by 2 This game could be Ezekiel Elliott’s last one for quite some time, as he has a court hearing on Monday that could determine the fate of his six-game suspension. Elliott seemed to be buckling under the weight of the looming punishment at the start of the season, but he has looked like his old self in the last two weeks, and it is no coincidence that the Cowboys (3-3) have righted the ship along the way. At a glance, the Redskins (3-3) seem to have a good run defense, but they have allowed so few yards because teams have chosen not to run against them, which won’t be the case with Dallas in town. Pick: Cowboys Bears at Saints, 1 p.m. Fox Line: Saints by 9 Relying on your team’s defense to do all the scoring is not a sustainable strategy in the N.F.L., but that is what has been working for the Bears (3-4) in the Mitchell Trubisky era. The rookie quarterback has done almost nothing notable, averaging 116 passing yards per game, but has a 2-1 record despite having thrown just two touchdown passes in a three-game stretch in which his team’s defense scored three. The Saints (4-2) are a tough team to play defense against, especially at home, but if Chicago’s surge on that side of the ball has not been a mirage, it should be able to beat a 9-point spread. Pick: Bears Raiders at Bills, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Bills by 2.5 There is nothing like crushing a well-regarded division rival to lift the spirits of a flailing team, and the Raiders (3-4) did just that with a come-from-behind win against Kansas City. Derek Carr returned to his 2016 form just in time to lead a game-winning drive. Unfortunately for Carr, the Bills (4-2) have a habit of making opponents miserable, and they can likely gut out an ugly win. With Marshawn Lynch suspended, Oakland will have a hard time controlling the clock. Pick: Bills Chargers at Patriots, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Patriots by 7 This game will serve as an indication of whether the Patriots (5-2) fixed their problems in the secondary last week, or if Atlanta simply was not good enough to take advantage of New England’s biggest weakness. Philip Rivers does not have the same confidence problems that the Falcons have been dealing with, so he will probably challenge New England early and often. If this game were in Los Angeles, the Chargers (3-4) would stand a better chance, but the Patriots are incredibly tough to beat at home. Pick: Patriots Panthers at Buccaneers, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Buccaneers by 2.5 Cam Newton has had two brutal games in a row. He has completed just 57 percent of his passes, and his five interceptions matched his total from the first five games combined. But watching the Panthers (4-3), it is easy to feel sorry for Newton as he is brutalized on play after play. Even the successful plays — many of which have come with Newton running rather than passing — end with big hits. The big quarterback rarely has extended stretches of ineffectiveness, and an important division game against the equally-struggling Buccaneers (2-4) should bring out the best in him. Pick: Panthers Dolphins at Ravens, 8:25 p.m. (Thursday), CBS and NFL Network Line: Ravens by 3 Cameron Wake, a defensive end for the Dolphins (4-2), managed to sum up “Thursday Night Football” in one convenient quotation. He told reporters this week: “To be very honest, nobody is going to be ready the way they like to be. They’ll be as ready as you can be on Thursday night.” With Matt Moore expected to start for the injured Jay Cutler, Miami’s offense will run through the team’s running back, Jay Ajayi, and that spells trouble for the Ravens (3-4), as they are ranked last in rushing yards allowed per game. Pick: Dolphins Vikings vs. Browns at London, 9:30 a.m., NFL Network Line: Vikings by 9.5 The Browns (0-7) will play their first game without tackle Joe Thomas since 2006, so Spencer Drango, a second-year player out of Baylor, will be protecting DeShone Kizer’s blind side against a Minnesota defense that is tied for sixth in sacks, with 21. It is understandable for the Vikings (5-2) to be “road” favorites in the neutral site of London’s Twickenham Stadium, but a spread of nearly 10 points is a lot to ask for from an underwhelming Minnesota offense. Pick: Browns Falcons at Jets, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Falcons by 5 The Jets (3-4) followed a three-game winning streak with consecutive losses, but they played well in both games and lost them by a combined 10 points. They go into every game with a talent deficit, but Coach Todd Bowles has had them focused and prepared each week. There is no reason the Falcons (3-3) shouldn’t mop the floor with them based on personnel, but the same thing was true in their recent losses to Miami and Buffalo. Unless the team has figured out what has been holding its offense back, this game could be close. Pick: Jets Colts at Bengals, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Bengals by 10.5 Jacoby Brissett endured a beating last week that few other quarterbacks have. He was sacked or hit on 31 of his team’s 67 plays, and the Colts (2-5) spent the week arguing about whether it was appropriate for T. Y. Hilton, a wide receiver, to blame his team’s offensive line for the blowout loss. The Bengals (2-4) do not have the players to replicate Jacksonville’s savagery, but they will try. A point spread of 10.5 points is enormous, but the Colts have lost by more than that in three of the last five weeks, with the other two games being wins against the two worst teams in the N.F.L. Pick: Bengals Broncos at Chiefs, 8:30 p.m., ESPN Line: Chiefs by 7 The Broncos (3-3) scored 42 points in Week 2, and in the four games since, they have also scored 42 points — combined. The Chiefs (5-2) are a division rival that not only has more talent than Denver, and home-field advantage, but also the motivation of having lost two close games in a row after a 5-0 start. Denver’s defense can probably limit Alex Smith and the Chiefs to a few touchdowns and a bunch of field goals, but that should be plenty to outscore Trevor Siemian and the Denver offense. Pick: Chiefs.