 WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — As Brian McCann squatted behind home plate in November at Dodger Stadium, waiting for Corey Seager to get set in the batter’s box, he looked out at pitcher Charlie Morton and had a moment. They were about to clinch the Houston Astros’ first World Series title, but McCann was not thinking about the here and now. He was thinking back some 16 years earlier, when he and Morton met for the first time — as sinewy, fresh-faced teenagers who had traveled across the country to play in a showcase tournament. “There were two outs in the ninth and we’re up four runs and I’m just sitting there, like this is pretty neat,” McCann said recently at the Astros’ spring training camp. “It’s all come full circle.” So when Seager could not handle Morton’s first pitch — a fastball in on his hands — and grounded meekly to second baseman Jose Altuve, the ensuing celebration allowed for a poignant scene: McCann racing toward the mound and leaping into Morton’s arms. It was an embrace with deep roots. “In those moments, the underlying emotion is derived from how you know that person and who that person is to you, and you want those moments for those people,” said Morton, who, like McCann, is 34. “I have an appreciation for not only who he is as a catcher and as a hitter, but as a person.” A year after that first meeting as 17-year-olds at the Area Code Games, about 30 miles south of Dodger Stadium in Long Beach, Calif., McCann and Morton were drafted by the Atlanta Braves in the second and third rounds of the 2002 draft. They were teammates in rookie ball that summer before their paths quickly diverged, intersecting intermittently but meaningfully. In 2008, McCann, by then an established star, was behind the plate when Morton made his major league debut. They joined the Astros before last season — McCann coming via a trade with the Yankees, Morton arriving from Philadelphia as a free agent. For all their shared experiences, they could not be more different. McCann, who grew up in Duluth, Ga., outside Atlanta, is bearded, bald and burly, and a seven-time All-Star whose biting wit, keen baseball mind and easy confidence have made him a clubhouse leader. Morton, who grew up in Redding, Conn., is towering and lithe, an introspective journeyman whose talent has often exceeded his confidence, which at times has been as fragile as his health. He has undergone surgeries on his elbow, hip (twice) and hamstring. But in each of their voices, there is an appreciation for the path the other has taken. They were the only players on that Area Code Games team, which was run by Pittsburgh Pirates scouts, to ascend to the major leagues. And among the 52 players drafted by the Braves in their class, they are among six who reached the majors and the only ones still there. McCann recalls arriving at the Braves’ minor league complex in 2002 after signing and seeing two other players in the clubhouse. One was Morton. Their rooms were across the hall from each other at the hotel where they lived, and they hung out during a stage in a ballplayer’s life that usually involves video games and pizza delivery. “When you sign, you’re going to a place where you don’t know what to expect,” Morton said. “There are people of different ages, different backgrounds, different nationalities, different cultures and you’re just showing up. You’re all there to begin your career and become acclimated to professional baseball. It’s not even necessarily about baseball. It’s more about adhering to structure and responsibility and then you go from there.” Three years later, Morton was going nowhere. Still in low Class A in Rome, Ga., “trying to figure out who I was on the field, off the field,” he said, he went to eat at a Fuddruckers restaurant across the street from the ballpark. On the television, he watched McCann’s second game in the big leagues, on June 11, 2005. After Braves pitcher John Smoltz finished a complete game, Morton was struck by how emphatic the future Hall of Famer was in congratulating McCann, then 20, after the final out. McCann said he was not sent down to the minors a few days later — as had been planned — because Smoltz lobbied Manager Bobby Cox to keep him. Smoltz recognized then what Morton had gotten a glimpse of in their brief summer together and would get a full viewing of later, when he navigated six innings in a win over the Los Angeles Angels in his major league debut, on June 14, 2008. “I remember Vladimir Guerrero hitting a ball straight back up the middle,” Morton said. “I’m pretty sure I remember Brian scream, ‘Watch out,’ even before he hit it.” Morton described good catchers as having a selfless self-confidence about them. “It allows you to feed off their confidence, off their self-determination, off their experience because it’s hard — especially as a young guy — to look in and believe in the totality of the decisions you’re making, pitch to pitch, batter to batter,” Morton said. “But a good catcher, you can see it in their eyes, you can see it in their face — how they receive the ball, how the game is called — that quiet, I-know-what-I’m-doing look in their eyes.” It could not have hurt Morton to have such a settling hand when he went to the mound to begin the sixth inning of Game 7 against the Dodgers in November. It was Morton’s first relief appearance in nine years, and it is hard to overstate how desperately Houston was counting on him. Though the Astros led, 5-0, they had already used four pitchers from a threadbare bullpen. Morton’s outing did not start promisingly: The Dodgers had one run in and two runners on with one out, bringing Dodger Stadium alive and the top of the order to the plate. “I was just trying to throw as hard as I could,” said Morton, who had one fastball clocked at 99 miles per hour. “I remember thinking: Wow, the ball’s coming out really well, but I don’t know where it’s going because I’m trying to throw it really hard. Then I threw a couple where it’s just, ‘make a pitch,’ and I look up to see if the ball is coming out well on the radar gun and it was like the same.” The regathering helped. Morton struck out Chris Taylor on three pitches, the final one a sharp-breaking curve. He then shattered Seager’s bat — a shard hit Morton on the thigh — to escape. He did not allow another base runner. “After the pitch he made on Seager, I knew from catching him that he was going to finish the game,” McCann said. It was an extraordinary show of faith in a pitcher who has a losing record in his career (60-78) and whom the Astros pitching coach Brent Strom described as a glass half-empty guy. Just to be sure, Astros Manager A. J. Hinch had Justin Verlander — who threw 93 pitches the day before — warming up in the ninth inning. But McCann’s faith was buttressed by his history with Morton, who was 14-7 with a 3.62 earned run average in the best season of his career and even better in the playoffs. He threw five shutout innings in the Astros’ 4-0 win over the Yankees in Game 7 of the American League Championship Series, and left Game 4 of the World Series with one out in the seventh and a 1-0 lead the bullpen would not hold. “When it’s all synced up, he’s one of the best pitchers in the game,” McCann said. “I just remember those Game 7s how calm he was, like he had played this moment in his head a million times. Not one moment got too big for him — he owned it.” That is not completely true. Morton said his one anxious moment came at the start of the ninth inning of Game 7 against the Dodgers, when Chase Utley, who was hitless in the postseason but 5 for 10 with a double and a homer in his career against Morton, was called upon to pinch-hit. “That was a game within a game for me,” Morton said. “This isn’t to take away from any other hitters in the game, but over a 10-year stretch, he’s a guy that I felt was really going to give me a hard time. So when Chase Utley steps into the box in the ninth inning of Game 7 of the World Series, you’re like, uh, all right, let’s see how this goes.” It went just fine. Morton struck Utley out on three pitches. Then he retired Taylor and Seager on routine grounders to Altuve. When first baseman Yuli Gurriel gloved Altuve’s final throw, shortstop Carlos Correa hurled his glove in the air, third baseman Alex Bregman sank to his knees and a brigade of pitchers burst through the bullpen gates. Morton checked to make sure it was the third out. “You kind of get lost in the moment,” he said. “I think we were on a good roll, we were making pitches and then, just like that, the season’s over. You throw one pitch and the whole thing is over.” It has been a little more than four months since the World Series ended. McCann, who had never advanced in five previous trips to the playoffs, said that time — and the watching and rewatching of the playoffs from his couch — had allowed for a deeper appreciation of how hard it is to win and for how remarkable the Series was. Morton said he had rewatched Game 7 only a handful of times. It was not transformative, he said, or a validation. What if he is back in the same spot this season and ends up losing? But it was, he added, a reminder of why the game matters. “We don’t romanticize baseball as much as people would love us to,” Morton said as he stood inside the clubhouse this month. “After a certain amount of time — I was drafted in 2002 and here we are 16 years later — and it’s become a job. It’s still appealing in the way that I get to go play baseball for a living, but the utopian idea of it, that’s kind of played out and now I have legitimate responsibilities to the organization, to myself and my family because it’s become about more than just me.” He paused to think. “But those moments,” Morton continued. “In baseball, if you’re speaking from in here, in this environment, that’s what we live for.”