 If you’re looking for a fantasy theme for N.F.L. Week 7, redemption is an easy one to spot. There are several star players who have thus far disappointed their fantasy owners. While the clock on the season is ticking, many of them are still in a position to turn things around, especially with excellent matchups scheduled for this week. Among the players looking to set their seasons straight are Falcons quarterback Matt Ryan, Dolphins running back Jay Ajayi, Raiders receiver Amari Cooper and Seahawks tight end Jimmy Graham. Speaking of redemption, running back Adrian Peterson got his season, and his career, back on track in Week 6 against the Buccaneers, rushing for 134 yards and two touchdowns in his first game since the Saints gave up on him and sent him to Arizona. With a matchup this week against fantasy football’s friendliest run defense, the Rams, he is easily among the players to start in Week 7. Matt Ryan (ATL at Patriots) — It has been easy to forget that Ryan had the second most fantasy points among quarterbacks last season. He has as many interceptions as he has passing touchdowns this season (six), and all of them have come in the last three games. Still, you have to start him against the N.F.L.’s worst defense. The Patriots have allowed, by far, the most fantasy points per game to opposing quarterbacks (24.2). Marcus Mariota (TEN at Browns) — It was not clear whether Mariota would even play against the Colts on Monday night because of a hamstring injury. He ended up with 306 yards passing (fifth most of the week) and a touchdown. More important, he did not suffer any setbacks to his health. His lack of mobility is worrisome, but not enough to bench him against the Browns, who are tied for most passing touchdowns allowed (14) and have yielded the second most F.P.P.G. to the position. Also consider: Jared Goff (LAR vs. Cardinals) Adrian Peterson (ARI at Rams) — If you happened to hold on to Peterson, or snagged him off your waiver wire, you were rewarded handsomely last week, as he turned back the clock to the tune of 25.4 fantasy points, the second most of any back in Week 7. It was a pretty shocking performance, not so much because of how he played but for as much as he played, having only recently joined the Cardinals. There will be no surprises this week as he takes on a Rams defense that has allowed the most fantasy points to running backs through six weeks. Jay Ajayi (MIA vs. Jets) — An impressive performance last week (130 rushing yards, 5.0 yards per carry) was the first productive outing since Week 1 for the first-round fantasy draft pick. He is still in danger of being considered one of the bigger busts of the year, but he has a chance to further change that theme in Week 7 against the Jets. Seven different running backs have scored at least 10 fantasy points against the Jets this season. Ajayi managed only 16 yards on 11 carries against the Jets in Week 3, but I’d be surprised to see a repeat performance at home with Ajayi looking stronger than he has all season. Also consider: Devonta Freeman/Tevin Coleman (ATL at Patriots) Amari Cooper (OAK vs. Chiefs) — It has been a long time since anyone could get excited about Cooper’s fantasy prospects, but things seem to be in place for him this week. For one, Derek Carr is back at quarterback and his back injury appears to be healed. Second, the Chiefs are allowing the second most fantasy points to the position, and within that secondary, the team’s best defensive back, Marcus Peters, is expected to cover the Raiders’ Michael Crabtree while Cooper deals with Terrance Mitchell, a much less impressive talent. The Raiders seem to know that they need to get their deep passing game going, based on comments made by Carr this week, so we could finally start seeing Cooper cashing in on some big plays Thursday night. Davante Adams (GB vs. Saints) — You may be surprised to see any Packers receiving option being recommended after Aaron Rodgers broke his collarbone last week. But Brett Hundley may not be as bad as his three-interception performance in relief of Rodgers last week showed. He is not likely to come close to Rodgers’s level, but Coach Mike McCarthy has faith in him, and for fantasy purposes, all he really needs to be is adequate in order for his receivers to retain value. The one touchdown he did have in Week 6 was to Adams, and Adams’s 10 targets Sunday all came from Hundley. This week Adams has an excellent matchup against the Saints. Also consider: Andre Holmes (BUF vs. Buccaneers); Terrelle Pryor (WAS vs. Eagles) Jimmy Graham (SEA at Giants) — Graham has been nothing short of underwhelming this season, with just one touchdown and under 200 receiving yards. The good news is that one touchdown came in Week 5, before the team’s bye week, on a jump ball in the end zone, and quarterback Russell Wilson has talked sense of the importance of getting Graham in more of those red zone situations. The matchup can’t be any better for Graham in Week 7, as the Giants have given up nearly 14 F.P.P.G. to the position, the most of any team. Also consider: Austin Seferian-Jenkins (NYJ at Dolphins) SEA at Giants; PIT vs. Bengals Stephen Gostkowski (NE vs. Falcons); Dan Bailey (DAL at 49ers).