 ARLINGTON, Tex. — Pete Carroll, the coach of the Seattle Seahawks, is known for taking chances on players. So many, from Richard Sherman to Russell Wilson to Doug Baldwin, have worked out. On Saturday, Carroll and John Schneider, the team’s general manager, spent the 141st overall selection in the N.F.L. draft on linebacker Shaquem Griffin. That fifth-round choice, announced in Seattle, drew loud cheers from fans here at AT&amp;T Stadium. Griffin, whose left hand was amputated when he was young, had become one of the most popular players in this draft because of his perseverance, outgoing personality and, of course, his talent. Griffin helped Central Florida go undefeated last season, then blew through the N.F.L. combine with a 4.38 in the 40, sensational lifting work with his prosthetic, and a can-do attitude. He is exactly the sort of player the Seahawks seem to find; they drafted his twin, Shaquill, out of Central Florida last year. Griffin was at the first two days of the draft, sitting through 100 picks without hearing his name. He returned Saturday afternoon with his family, including Shaquill, with whom he stood for photos wearing a light blue sport jacket and eyeglasses under a Seahawks cap. “It’s amazing just to be here right now; I couldn’t ask for more,” Shaquem Griffin said. “It’s been a long road coming, but I’m glad I had the opportunity to be here. “It’s been a really good experience. I would have been crazy to turn an experience down like this. I’m just glad I was one of the selected few to be here.” Griffin had one of the more unusual ways of finding out he was chosen. “I was using the restroom and my brother came and tackled me with my cellphone, saying, ‘Answer it, answer it,’ and I looked, and that’s when tears started pouring down,” he said. “I literally went to use the restroom, and that’s when my brother busted in and tackled me. I think I was more scared of him tackling me in the bathroom and not knowing what was happening than anything.” Griffin received, by far, the biggest cheers of the day — louder even than when the Cowboys’ selections were announced. And he made a promise: “Great things are coming to Seattle.” Griffin’s selection early in the fifth round enlivened a day in which most picks are little known. Not all, though. Michigan defensive tackle Maurice Hurst was taken one spot in front of Griffin by the Oakland Raiders. An all-American, he would have gone much earlier, but a heart condition was discovered at the combine, dropping him far down draft boards. He had five and a half sacks as an interior rusher and led all nose tackles and defensive tackles with 49 total quarterback pressures, according to Pro Football Focus. “It’s tough thinking that you’re one of the top players in the draft and having good tape and everything like that, just having to wait,” Hurst said. As for his health, he said, “I’m ready to go right now.” Another all-American, Iowa linebacker Josey Jewell, was taken by Denver at No. 106. He’s not considered quick, but he is active and seemed to be in on every tackle for the Hawkeyes. Also on Saturday, Michigan State extended its streak of having at least one player selected to 78 years when Brian Allen went to the Rams early in the fourth round. Only Michigan and Southern California have longer streaks: Both extended them to 80 years in the first two days of the draft. The Giants took the first quarterback of the third day, Richmond’s Kyle Lauletta, at No. 109. The Giants passed on trying to get their quarterback of the future to replace Eli Manning in the first round, taking running back Saquon Barkley at No. 2 over all. Lauletta doesn’t have a big arm, but he showed good athleticism and accuracy in college. In the fifth round, with the 139th overall pick, the Giants chose defensive tackle R.J. McIntosh out of Miami. Another quarterback, Western Kentucky’s Mike White, went to Dallas in the sixth round. Dallas acquired wideout Tavon Austin from the Rams in a trade on Saturday. The Jets, picking 107th, chose tight end Chris Herndon, also of Miami, in the fourth round. Cleveland used a fourth-round pick, No. 105 over all, to take one of the draft’s most talented but troubled wide receivers: Florida’s Antonio Callaway. He had multiple suspensions while playing with the Gators, missing all of last season because of his part in a credit card fraud scheme. Wisconsin tight end Troy Fumagalli, who is missing the index finger on his left hand, went to Denver in the fifth round. Three punters were taken in the fifth round. Michael Dickson, the Australian from Texas, was picked 149th over all by Seattle. Alabama’s J.K. Scott was drafted 172nd over all by Green Bay, a pick before Oakland took Johnny Townsend from Florida. Townsend was the N.C.A.A. leader last season with a 47.5-yard average on his 64 punts.