 When Giancarlo Stanton struck out for the fifth time on Sunday and left the field at Yankee Stadium to a chorus of boos, he was not merely having a bad game. He was putting himself in the record books. And there may well be more record-breaking, of the wrong kind, to come. It was Stanton’s second five-strikeout game of the season. The major league record is three, and given that the calendar still says April, it looks extremely vulnerable. Such games, sometimes called platinum sombreros, are quite rare. There have been two other five-strikeout games this season, by Tim Beckham of the Baltimore Orioles and Chad Wallach of the Miami Marlins. There were five in all of 2017, eight in 2016 and three in 2015. The most five-whiff games in a career is just four, by Sammy Sosa from 1990 to 2003. Ray Lankford’s three with the San Francisco Giants and the Chicago Cubs in 1998 is the most in a single season, followed by Stanton this year and Deron Johnson in 1964 with two. But Stanton got to his second five-K game much, much faster. It took Johnson until September and Lankford until June. “Things aren’t going well,” Stanton said after Sunday’s game. “You’ve just got to look at it as a bad week. The season’s much longer than a week. A couple good games and I can turn it around and help us win.” That’s one scenario. Another is that Stanton keeps on striking out. The more common “golden sombrero” is earned when a player has four strikeouts in a game. The career leader is Ryan Howard with 26 (and one platinum), followed by Reggie Jackson with 22 (and one platinum). At age 28, Stanton has 16, tied for eighth all time. Can Stanton go one better? Six strikeouts in a game has happened only eight times in history, most recently in 2004 by Geoff Jenkins of the Milwaukee Brewers. It will be tough. To get six strikeouts, of course, you have to get to the plate at least six times. Stanton achieved that only nine times last season and never more than 11 times in a season in his career. Stanton’s whiffery is part of a larger trend toward far more strikeouts in baseball. Last season there were 40,104 strikeouts, about 22 percent of plate appearances. In 2007, that figure was 17 percent. Go back to 1957 and it was 13 percent. Still, it should be noted that with everything added up, Stanton’s offense has not been terrible this season. Yes, he is hitting only .167, but three homers, two doubles and six walks add some real value. His on-base plus slugging is .699, not an All-Star number, but better than a few other Yankee starters this season, including Brett Gardner, Tyler Wade, Miguel Andujar and Gary Sanchez. Baseball statheads will also remind you that a strikeout isn't really much worse than other kinds of outs, and sometimes is better: You would rather a player strike out than hit into a double play, for example. Stanton could be looking at another record, strikeouts in March and April. Chris Carter holds it with 46 in 2013, when he was with the Houston Astros. Stanton has 20 strikeouts with 20 games still to go. At two strikeouts per game, his current rate, he would crush the record. Looking ahead, the Yankees are a favorite to make the playoffs, where big strikeout games are also unusual. Only two players have fanned five times in the playoffs, Reggie Sanders of the Cincinnati Reds in 1995 and George Pipgras of the Yankees in 1932. The four-strikeout-game record in the postseason is three. A co-holder of that record? Stanton’s teammate Aaron Judge, who did it three times in a 2017 American League division series.