 John Sterling is in a quandary. Sterling, the oft-imitated but truly inimitable radio voice of the Yankees, thinks he has come up with a great home run call for Giancarlo Stanton, and if Stanton hits as many home runs in his first year as a Yankee as he did in 2017 for the Miami Marlins, Sterling will repeat it, with his unique vocal inflections, some 59 times in 2018. But there is trepidation because one of the great joys in Sterling’s life is when fans approach him and repeat back to him one of his trademark calls — “That’s when you know you’ve got something” — and he’s not sure Stanton’s will clear that bar. “This one is so different,” he said. “It’s an Italian phrase that rhymes. I don’t know if anyone will get it. I’m really worried. Well, not really worried. In fact, I’m not worried. Let’s say I’m mildly concerned. “Boy, I hope it works. It may not.” Stanton is not of Italian ancestry — he is of African-American, Irish and Puerto Rican descent — but the sound of his first name was enough to inspire Sterling to summon his amateur Italian to create what he believes will be a worthy addition to a catalog of personalized home run calls that already includes Thrillas by Godzilla (for Hideki Matsui) and A-Bombs for A-Rod (for you know who). Sterling is not showing his cards. He declined a chance to give it a trial run in an interview, and when Stanton hit a spring training home run a couple of weeks ago, Sterling proclaimed it “a Stantonian blast!” But that was just a placeholder; the real thing will not be unveiled until Stanton homers in a regular-season game. If the Stanton call doesn’t “work,” it will not be the first time Sterling has had to shift gears. In 2009, Nick Swisher objected to Sterling’s “Jolly ‘ol Saint Nick!” call, which led him to come up with an alternative: “Swishalicious!” And in 2010, his first attempt at immortalizing a Curtis Granderson home run — he sang “Curtis, you’re something sorta grandish!,” a line from a song from “Finian’s Rainbow,” a 70-year-old Broadway show — was replaced by the more accessible “The Grandy Man Can!” Trial and error, Sterling said, is sometimes just part of the process. “It’s not easy to come up with one for everybody,” Sterling said. “But I’ve made up a lot of them on the spot. I just have a good mind for nonsense.” On Thursday, Sterling will begin his 30th season as the primary radio voice of the Yankees, matching the tenure of the Hall of Famer Phil Rizzuto, who developed his own collection of catchphrases and vocal idiosyncrasies during a long run as an analyst and play-by-play man between 1957 and 1986. Sterling, who turns 80 in July, has no plans to retire. He likes to point out that he may be the only person to have seen every pitch thrown to Derek Jeter and every pitch thrown by Mariano Rivera in their careers. “Carl Reiner, Mel Brooks and Tony Bennett are all in their 90s and they’re never retiring,” he said. “And I like that. I don’t want to brag. But I have the same voice now I had when I was 30. So why should I retire?” Besides, the Yankees haven’t looked this promising in years — “I don’t think I’ve ever been as excited for a year,” Sterling said — and even Sterling is improved. Criticized often for sometimes miscalling fly balls with his “It is high! It is far!” home run lead-in, Sterling has a fresh view of things this spring after having cataract surgery on both eyes this winter. “What a difference!,” he said. “For the first time in years, I could read the linescore off the auxiliary scoreboard without binoculars.”