 Tony Pulis, at least, had the chance to write his own epitaph. In what proved to be his final column for the matchday program as West Bromwich Albion manager, he laid down a staunch defense of his record: a list of achievements, a blueprint for how he would like to be remembered. At first glance, it seemed combative: a reminder of all he had achieved in almost three years at the Hawthorns, the success he had enjoyed and the challenges he had faced. In hindsight, it reads differently. It has the feel of Pulis running through his arguments, making a case against his dismissal; a man getting his rebuttal in first. At times, his tone drifted close to the spin normally reserved for politicians. He pointed out that, last season, his team had finished 10th place in the Premier League, for “only the third time in Albion’s history.” That made West Brom “the top Midlands team” for only “the second time.” He mentioned the “record” number of West Brom players who had represented their countries; oh, and the club had “always made profits” during his tenure, no doubt in part because he had only been able to spend “monies made over previous seasons” in the transfer market. For all that, he said, he had been “nominated for manager of the year” last season, something he attributed — with a fair suspicion but no actual proof — to the fact that he was “the top manager, per pound per point, in the Premier League.” His pitch, unspoken, was unmistakable: Firing the best-value coach in England would be madness. It did not work. On Monday morning, West Brom’s owner, Guochuan Lai, and its chairman, John Williams, told Pulis his services were no longer required. His program notes make it hard to believe it was a surprise. Even if he had not expected it before Saturday, before Chelsea, he must have known it was over afterward. Not because of the result — a 4-0 defeat — or even because of the manner of West Brom’s performance, the sort of supine surrender which Pulis’s very presence is supposed to mitigate. A manager of his experience and his reputation might survive both, just as he might have been able to stave off the grim reality of the Premier League standings: West Brom is 17th, having lost four games in a row and going winless since August. After all, as the broadcaster Gary Lineker mentioned on Saturday night, it is Pulis whom teams in such straits typically turn to for salvation. What made his departure inevitable was not something that happened on the field, then, but something off it. West Brom’s attendance has been sputtering for 18 months, slipping from an average of just over 25,000 in the season he joined to 23,876 in the 2016-17 season. On Saturday, for what would be his final game, only 23,592 of the Hawthorns’ 26,850 seats had been sold. Worse, many thousands more were empty by the time the curtain drew on West Brom’s humiliation. The last half-hour, with Chelsea cruising, was played out against a backdrop of thousands of navy blue seats. It was a physical manifestation of a simmering trend. Under Pulis, West Brom’s fans were starting to drift away and disconnect. The Hawthorns usually produces one of the best atmospheres in England, tightly packed and raucous, but it had grown quiet, riddled with disaffection and apathy. Results were not to blame — West Bromwich is no place for a fair-weather fan — but Pulis’s style was. Earlier this month, Neil Reynolds resigned his post as chairman of Shareholders 4 Albion, a group that represents a number of the club’s small shareholders. He blamed Pulis. “He has killed my love for the club in particular and football in general,” Reynolds told the Express and Star newspaper. Reynolds’ symptoms were extreme, but the sickness was contagious; it had first taken root last year, when the club was about to finish 10th for the third time in its history. West Brom’s fans were, slowly but surely, rejecting the brand of soccer that, just a couple of years ago, had made Pulis so appealing to the club (and which has already seen him mentioned as a candidate to lead Swansea City, another team at risk of relegation): pragmatic and perfunctory, safety-first and risk-averse, effective but unlovable. Pulis could never survive for long in such an environment. He knew that, of course; after all, it had happened before. Between 2006 and 2013, Pulis transformed Stoke City — in his words — from a “mid-table club in the Championship,” one that had been absent from the top flight for three decades, into a mainstay of the Premier League. He crafted the club, and its reputation, entirely in his own image. And yet he was dismissed in 2013 after seven years in charge. The club’s explanation centered on its desire to institute a new, more attractive, more expansive approach, to move beyond what Pulis could do. Two examples may not be enough for a pattern, but now that this history has repeated itself, it is certainly worth asking why. In soccer, as in all sports, there is an inherent tension between substance and style. It can be boiled down to the old, cliché question: Is it better to play poorly and win, or play well and lose? That Pulis would land squarely on the former is obvious. He has always fetishized reaching 40 points, the putative mark at which relegation has been avoided. He has no time for grander ambitions. It is telling that even in his apologia in the matchday program this weekend, he spoke exclusively of deeds, not of methods. It matters to Pulis what you achieve, not how you go about it. He is not alone in that, of course: José Mourinho, no less, has no time for talk of philosophies or poetry; he values winning and winning alone. Sam Allardyce, Claudio Ranieri, Fabio Capello: All would look no further than substance. On the other side sit Pep Guardiola, Marcelo Bielsa, Brendan Rodgers — all of whom might suggest that style is at least as important; or, rather, that substance is a natural consequence of style. It is an intractable debate — no right or wrong answer, for all the hot air expunged in discussing it — but one that, actions speaking louder than words, would find most club owners siding with Pulis. The cost of relegation, after all, is not worth paying, no matter how beautiful the soccer; no wonder it is the safety-first types who tend to be handed the reins when disaster needs to be averted. Increasingly, though, fans seem to be at the other end of the scale, and particularly those in that part of the Premier League in which Pulis has spent most of the last decade. There was another telling line in Pulis’s notes on Saturday, one that he echoed when he released a statement on Monday evening, after his dismissal. “Expectations were raised,” he said, twice, hinting that perhaps the blame for his departure can be laid on the demands of fans who have forgotten where they came from. Their priority, like his, should simply be getting to 40 points and remaining in the Premier League. That, however, is not enough, not any more, because for the vast majority of clubs in the Premier League there is no choice between winning while playing poorly and losing while playing well. Such is the dominance of the league’s top six: The rest of the clubs, at the start of each season, can aspire to nothing higher than mid-table. Few, if any, teams will win more than they lose, and every team outside the top seven last season conceded more goals than they scored. In that environment, the choice is often much more stark: You can either lose playing poorly or lose playing well. West Brom fans — like those of all of the Premier League’s lesser lights — do not have unrealistic expectations; they do not ask for title challenges or cup wins. The modern game has drawn those dreams from them. Instead, all they ask is that their inescapable mediocrity is fun, or pretty, or entertaining. Under Pulis, it is not, as first Stoke and now West Bromwich decided. That marks something of a sea change, one that should be noted not just by Pulis, but by his peers, and by the owners that employ them. Nobody, at either club, would dispute what he achieved; nobody would challenge the factual accuracy of his program notes. There was nothing wrong with what he wrote. The problem is how he wrote it.