 NASSAU, Bahamas — In the flush of victory, the generation of American golfers inspired by Tiger Woods turned their bright eyes on their idol. At the after party for the 2016 Ryder Cup, they needled Woods, who would return to competition two months later after an extended absence because of a back injury. Tom Lehman, an assistant captain on that United States team, recalled a few of the verbal challenges he heard hurled at Woods, a fellow assistant captain, by the millennials in their midst. Speaking at the recent Champions Tour season finale in Phoenix, Lehman ticked off the list: “I want a piece of you; I’m going to teach you how to play golf; I’m going to bury you; I’m going to take you down.” Lehman, who won his only major championship the month before Woods turned pro in 1996, said he cautioned the players to be careful what they asked for, telling them, “The Tiger Woods that played against guys of my vintage, if you want to get your buns kicked, then play against that guy.” A 7-year-old Justin Thomas attended the 2000 P.G.A. Championship, one of Woods’s nine PGA Tour victories that season, and decided right then and there that he wanted to follow in Woods’s footsteps. This year, Thomas, now 24, added his name to the P.G.A. Championship trophy en route to winning the season-long FedEx Cup title. On Thursday, when the Hero World Challenge starts here, he will be paired for the first time in a tournament with Woods, who is making his first competitive start in 10 months. This is the third time in the past four years that Woods, 41, is marking his return to golf at this tournament, an unofficial PGA Tour event that benefits his charitable foundation. His comeback last year was short-lived. After three starts, back pain forced Woods again to the sidelines in February. Two months later, he had spinal fusion surgery, and as part of the healing process, he did not swing a club for six months. Despite the fact that he has been hitting full shots only since October, Woods played a nine-hole practice round here on Monday with an ease and fluidity that pleasantly surprised his caddie, Joe LaCava, who said, “He’s hitting it more solid, and he looks stronger and healthier than last year.” Woods’s back has been acting up since late in his five-win 2013 season, during which he supplanted Rory McIlroy as the world No. 1. For long stretches during the past four years, Woods, now ranked No. 1,199, said he was confined to bed because of the pain, which was so excruciating he kept a bucket next to his bed “because I physically could not do something as basic as go to the bathroom by myself.” To try to manage his discomfort, and the insomnia that was a byproduct of the shooting pain that traveled from his back down his leg and into his foot, Woods misused prescription drugs. Between shots during a practice round on Monday, Woods said: “I was just taking drugs on top of drugs, just trying to kill the nerve pain. It was like something hitting your body about 200 times a day. And the thing is that I didn’t know when it was coming.” In late May, he was arrested and charged with driving under the influence after he was found asleep behind the wheel with his car running and the brake lights on. A toxicology report revealed a mix of four prescription drugs and the active ingredient in marijuana in Woods’s system. He pleaded guilty to a charge of reckless driving and agreed to enter a pretrial diversion program. He paid a $250 fine and will have to attend a D.U.I. school and a workshop and complete 50 hours of community service. At his news conference Tuesday, Woods said, “Now that I’m feeling the way I’m feeling, it’s just hard to imagine that I was living the way I was living.” He added, “I’m loving life now.” Asked how he will manage any future pain without relying on painkillers, he said, “That’s why you have doctors.” The fusion surgery was Woods’s fourth back procedure, and more invasive than the microdiscectomy procedures that he had previously endured. Woods, who is famous for saying his expectation whenever he tees it up is to win, was more measured Tuesday. “I’m winging this,” he said, “because I don’t know what my body can and can’t do yet.” He added, “I’m just looking forward to getting through these four rounds and having a better understanding of where I’m at.” Woods would not commit to a schedule after this weekend. “I just really don’t know yet,” he said. “I just really want to be able to compete this week, play all four days, and give myself a chance on the back nine on Sunday to win this thing.” With 79 Tour titles, including 14 majors, Woods has nothing left to prove — except, perhaps, to the young pros that he attracted to the game. To understand Woods’s motivation for returning to the competitive grind that has ground his finely tuned body into a two-wheeled jalopy and led to a misuse of pain medications, the response he gave the young Americans teasing him at the Ryder Cup is perhaps instructive. Lehman recalled Woods saying, “You don’t want a piece of me.” According to the PGA Tour, Thomas is one of five players in this week’s 18-man field who has never played in a tournament in which Woods emerged as the champion. The millennials who molded their games after Woods have never competed against him at his best. LaCava described Woods’s desire to compete against the young stars like Thomas, who have asserted themselves in his absence, as “unfinished business.” LaCava said, “I think he wants to show, ‘This is how it used to be with me.’” Woods alluded to as much on Tuesday. “In an ideal world, I would like them to feel what some of my past guys had to go against all those years,” he said, referring to his competitors then and now. “I’d like to have them feel that same play.” And the youngsters that Woods is motivated to impress are not just the pros. “He wants to show his kids that as well,” LaCava said. Woods’s children, Sam Alexis, 10, and Charlie Axel, 8, are avid soccer players. Golf, he said, holds little interest for either. His son’s favorite athlete is Barcelona’s Lionel Messi. In July, Woods took the children to a preseason match in South Florida between Barcelona and Real Madrid, and they met Messi. After they posed for a photograph with Messi and his Barcelona teammate Luis Suárez, Woods said to his children, “Isn’t it neat to meet a living legend?” He was taken aback by the reply from Sam, his daughter: “Yeah, we live with one.” Woods said, “I never thought my kids have understood what I’ve been able to do in the game of golf because they always think I’m the YouTube golfer.” The last time Woods won a PGA Tour event, in 2013, Sam was 6 and Charlie was 4. “So most of the stuff they’ve watched has been on highlight packages,” he said. When Woods started preparing for this event, he said his daughter wanted to accompany him on the course and watch. And his son likes to compete with him in putting games and short-game drills. “I want them to see what I’ve been able to do my entire career,” Woods said, adding, “I don’t know how long I’m going to be playing, but I want them to come to a few events, I want them to feel it, I want them to understand it a little bit more.” His children have seen Woods use a golf club as a crutch to help him get around the house. The young players on the PGA Tour have seen Woods use a golf club to pummel his opponents. This is the first week in what feels like the final act of Woods’s career, and he is taking nothing for granted. “I’m just so thankful that I’ve had this procedure,” Woods said, “and I’ve gotten to this point.”