 The Ultimate Fighting Championship star Conor McGregor was released on $50,000 bail after being charged on Friday in connection with a backstage melee that injured two fighters and forced the removal of three bouts on Saturday night from U.F.C.’s biggest card this year. Video footage appears to show McGregor throwing a hand truck at a bus full of fighters on Thursday after a news conference for UFC 223 at Barclays Center in Brooklyn. McGregor was not scheduled to fight in the event. McGregor appeared in criminal court in Brooklyn, where he faced charges of assault and criminal mischief, among other related charges, according to a criminal complaint. His lawyer could not immediately be reached for comment on Friday evening. McGregor is expected back in court June 14. Dana White, the president of U.F.C., said on Friday that he exchanged text messages with McGregor. “It was probably the worst conversation we ever had,” White told FS1’s “First Things First” on Friday morning. “We talked yesterday before he turned himself in. It’s not that I don’t think he understood what happened. He justified it. It was justified to him.” White said that McGregor, 29, told him that he was sorry that the fighters were injured but “this had to be done.” Video showed McGregor with a group of people as they took an elevator to the loading dock at Barclays Center on Thursday. McGregor can be seen tossing trash cans and being prevented from throwing a barricade at a bus. The fighter Michael Chiesa was injured. He was sent to the hospital with cuts on his face and was forced out of his scheduled fight against Anthony Pettis. “A decision was made by the New York State Athletic Commission to pull me from UFC 223,” Chiesa said in a tweet. “I’m devastated to say the least. @showtimepettis I hope to run this match up ASAP. June 9th in your backyard. That’s all I have to say for now. Much love.” The flyweight Ray Borg was also injured in the attack, sustaining multiple cornea abrasions. His fight against Brandon Moreno was also canceled. McGregor has not fought for U.F.C. since November 2016 and was stripped this week by White of the 155-pound championship he has never defended. McGregor last fought in a boxing match on Aug. 26, 2017. He lost to Floyd Mayweather Jr.