 PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — The idea of redemption has always made the snowboard cross star Lindsey Jacobellis weary, because, in her mind, she did nothing that needed to be redeemed. Yet after her infamous fall at the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, where she spun gold into silver by falling near the finish line with a big lead, that is the way her Olympics career has been framed. It was that way in Vancouver in 2010, and Sochi in 2014. Both times, Jacobellis, the most accomplished athlete in the sport’s history, stumbled in the semifinals, leaving without a medal. Twelve years later, most of them spent dominating the World Cup circuit, she was back in the Olympics championship race, called the Big Final. Again she left without a medal — by 0.03 seconds. Jacobellis finished fourth, missing the medal stand by about half the length of a snowboard. She led the final race midway through the curling course of rises and jumps but was passed on the bottom half. She avoided a crash near the finish line and came across a fraction of a second behind Eva Samkova of the Czech Republic, who won gold four years ago and bronze this time. Michela Moioli of Italy won the gold medal, and Julia Pereira de Sousa Mabileau of France earned silver. Friday’s race on a sunny afternoon at Phoenix Snow Park felt far removed from 12 years ago, except that the memory of that slip-up in Turin has followed Jacobellis throughout her career. It spikes every four years at the Olympics, where she is rarely celebrated for her consistency atop the sport, for her world championships, World Cup and X Games victories, as much as remembered for one unforced error as a 20-year-old. She has a “very strong love-hate relationship” with the Olympics, she said last fall. In 2006, Jacobellis had a big lead in the final and, on the second-to-last jump, added a stylish flourish that pulled her off balance before she crashed into the snow. A competitor raced past before Jacobellis recovered for second place. Before Pyeongchang, at the nudge of the U.S. snowboarding coach Peter Foley, Jacobellis worked with a New York-based mental coach named Denise Shull for about the past 18 months. Shull, with a background in finance, had never worked with an athlete, and took a different approach than most sports psychologists. She told Jacobellis to embrace her fear and anxiety, not try to pretend it is not there. The idea was that those memories would inevitably creep back into the performance, so Jacobellis might as well hold them out in the open. Jacobellis, 32, had the fourth-fastest time in the morning’s qualifying heats, where riders compete alone against a clock to secure seeding for the group races. She cruised to a first-place finish in her quarterfinal heat. She got out front fast and, aided by early wipeouts behind her, sailed to the finish just in front of Canadian Tess Critchlow. She glided in similar fashion with a second-place finish in her semifinal heat. That put her right back where she was 12 years ago — out front again. But leads are rarely safe in snowboard cross. She was passed by one rider on a midcourse jump, then another on the subsequent curve. Another slipped past on the final series of jumps, and Jacobellis could not make it up. There was no fall. There was no big mistake. There was just a four-time Olympian heading out of the finish area as three women less-decorated in the sport celebrated their new prizes.