 Timofey Mozgov, whose 7-foot-1 frame has the general dimensions of an industrial freezer, has spent the bulk of his N.B.A. career operating as a center from the old school. He plies his trade in the paint by rebounding, dunking and throwing his considerable weight around. But with the Nets this season, Mozgov is trying, in at least one important way, to join the march of the modern game: by launching 3-pointers. “If you don’t shoot,” he said after a recent practice, “you don’t make.” Look around the N.B.A. these days, and you will see that the resident skyscrapers are quicker and more versatile than ever. Eschewing the plodding, back-to-the-basket approach of their forefathers, 7-footers like the Knicks’ Kristaps Porzingis and the Milwaukee Bucks’ Giannis Antetokounmpo run the floor and hoist interstellar jumpers, turning defensive game plans inside out. The Nets are among the teams that want to ratchet up their pace and stretch the floor with loads of 3-pointers, and they have a core of young players building toward that goal. And then there is Mozgov, 31, whom the Nets picked up in the off-season as a part of the trade that landed them the point guard D’Angelo Russell from the Los Angeles Lakers in exchange for Brook Lopez, their longtime center. Mozgov, who has three years and $48 million left on his contract, has many fine qualities, but he is neither nimble nor known as a long-range specialist, having made an average of one 3-pointer per season since he arrived in the N.B.A. Coach Kenny Atkinson did not question those limitations until the most powerful person in the organization suggested looking deeper. Atkinson recalled a conversation with Mikhail Prokhorov, the team’s owner, not long after the Nets acquired Mozgov, who, like Prokhorov, is from Russia. “Hey,” Atkinson remembered Prokhorov telling him, “Timmy can shoot 3s.” The exchange carried some weight. Atkinson loves big men who are proficient from the 3-point line because they drag their defenders to the perimeter, which creates space for everyone else. He pointed out the challenges that players like Porzingis and the Boston Celtics’ Al Horford present in pick-and-rolls. “Do you switch your big onto their super-quick guard? It’s just not ideal,” Atkinson said. “And if you don’t switch and play it soft, they throw it back to those guys for a wide-open shot.” As the Nets surged to a surprising 3-2 start with their victory over the Cleveland Cavaliers on Wednesday, Mozgov has struggled to find a fit with his new team, averaging 4.6 points and 4.2 rebounds ahead of Friday’s game against the Knicks. His biggest issue? A general inability to defend more mobile centers. Mozgov sees the future of his position every night, and it is a problem. Consider that 23 percent of all the field goals attempted by 7-footers through Wednesday’s games were 3-pointers, an increase from 14.6 percent last season and 8.9 percent in 2015-16. Less than 1 percent of 7-footers’ shots were 3-pointers as recently as 2000-1, according to N.B.A. Advanced Stats. Enter Mozgov, who may need to develop a consistent deep jumper to stay in the Nets’ rotation. His shot is a work in progress. Through the first five games of the regular season, Mozgov has attempted three 3-pointers, sinking one in a loss to the Orlando Magic on Tuesday. “That’s where the league is going,” Nets forward Quincy Acy said. Mozgov understands that he does not have carte blanche to chuck 3-pointers. As he put it, “It’s not like I’ll be on the 3-point line all game.” But he will pick his spots. In the preseason, he made two of three attempts from 3-point range. “Nice, right?” he said. Despite Prokhorov’s assurances, there was little statistical evidence coming into the season that Mozgov could knock down 3-pointers. He had attempted 40 of them through his first seven seasons in the league and made just seven. But Atkinson noticed that Mozgov had a soft touch on a high release. And with the Lakers last season, he shot 44.6 percent on jumpers that ranged from 16 feet out to the 3-point line at 23 feet 9 inches, according to N.B.A. Advanced Stats. But in the age of analytics, midrange jumpers are about as popular as two-week road trips. Rather than have his players take long 2-pointers, Atkinson would prefer that they shoot from behind the 3-point arc — and that now includes Mozgov. “Might as well,” Atkinson said. Atkinson delivered this news to Mozgov on the day of his introductory news conference in June. The directive was coming from above. “The owner told me to tell you that,” Atkinson recalled telling him. Mozgov tends to be impassive. But Atkinson said he could sense that Mozgov was “thrilled” by this development. His teammates could, too. “If you’re a big guy like Timo, all most coaches want you to do is just score on the block, bang, get rebounds and set screens,” the reserve guard Joe Harris said. “So when the coach finally gives you some freedom, it’s like you have a whole new perspective.” Atkinson also thinks of the 3-pointer as a motivational tool. “I do think there’s an element of that,” Atkinson said. “Like, ‘Hey, Timmy, if you defend and rebound, we’ll let you take a 3 once in a while.’ But he’s really embraced it.” There are limits. During a preseason game, Mozgov received a pass just in front of the 3-point line. He was open and wanted to shoot, but he realized he was in the midrange no-man’s land. So he took a step-back dribble and fired a 3-point attempt. It was off the mark. Atkinson advised him not to do that again. “Kenny’s like, ‘Well, I give him the freedom to shoot 3s but not step-back 3s,’ ” Harris said. “I don’t think he wants anyone taking step-back 3s.” In truth, Prokhorov hardly needed to sell Atkinson on the idea of letting another of his players drift behind the 3-point line. Last season, the Nets ranked fourth in the league in 3-point attempts, and Atkinson broadcast his affinity for the shot by giving the green light to the one player on the roster who seemed the least likely to take them: Lopez. In his first eight seasons with the Nets, Lopez shot a total of 31 3-point attempts. But last season, Atkinson encouraged him to add the occasional 3-pointer to his repertoire. To suggest that Lopez was receptive would be an understatement. “He took it and ran with it,” Atkinson said. Lopez took a team-high 387 3-pointer attempts that season and made a respectable 34.6 percent of them. “I think Timmy will be more measured,” Atkinson said. Mozgov was asked if teammates had offered pointers. “Just make it,” he said. “Simple.” Mozgov often concludes a practice by taking dozens of 3-pointers with the help of assistant coaches who rebound for him. As he works his way around the arc, he forces himself to make 7 of 10 attempts before he moves on to the next spot. He can sense gradual improvement. His future may depend on it.