 David Villa scored two goals but failed to convert a potentially game-winning penalty kick in the final minutes as New York City F.C., playing a home game on the road at Citi Field, settled for a 2-2 tie against the Columbus Crew on Sunday. The result, on a goal-filled final day of the Major League Soccer regular season, nearly cost N.Y.C.F.C. a bye in the first round of the playoffs, but Villa and his teammates were spared when Toronto rallied for a 2-2 tie at Atlanta United. N.Y.C.F.C. finished in the No. 2 spot in the Eastern Conference, meaning that, instead of playing in a midweek elimination game, the team will have at least a week to prepare for its playoff opener. Atlanta, which could have snatched the second spot with a victory in front of an M.L.S.-record crowd of 71,874, instead will play host to Columbus in the knockout round on Thursday. The Red Bulls, 2-1 winners at D.C. United, will play at Chicago — and their former captain Dax McCarty — in another knockout round game on Wednesday. One of New York City F.C.’s biggest playoff concerns — that it might not have a place to play its postseason games — was alleviated earlier in the weekend. Sunday’s match against Columbus had been moved to Citi Field because the Yankees were still using Yankee Stadium, which N.Y.C.F.C. uses for home games, for their own postseason games. It was first time in three seasons that the co-tenants had an unresolvable scheduling conflict. But when the Yankees were denied a trip to the World Series by the Houston Astros on Saturday night, that meant the stadium would be free for soccer. Dates for the conference semifinals will be announced this week. Columbus, which already had clinched a playoff berth, has its own, more serious, stadium issues. The Crew’s owner, Anthony Precourt, this week announced that he would seek to move the team to Austin, Tex., if plans for a new downtown stadium in Columbus are not completed next year. The revelation, and subsequent ones that league officials had been taking part in secret negotiations about a potential move, infuriated fans of the Crew, one of the league’s original teams. For a relatively young league that has earnestly tried to establish traditions, and is set to charge two cities expansion fees of $150 million this winter, the idea of an owner simply packing up for a better deal had made for an uncomfortable week, with public protests in Columbus and professions of sympathy elsewhere. But the controversy also cast a pall over the playoff hopes of the Crew, who have not lost (6-0-4) since Aug. 5. “You can get away from everything,” the Crew’s Wil Trapp told The Columbus Dispatch this week. “We’re players. We want to be on the field. It’s the most natural way to block out everything else.” One stadium that has seen its last M.L.S. game is Robert F. Kennedy Stadium in Washington, which closed out its 22-season run as D.C. United’s home with a visit from the Red Bulls. D.C. United, which finished last in the Eastern Conference, will move into a new stadium nearby next season. In other games on the league’s so-called Decision Day — 11 games that kicked off simultaneously and produced 46 goals — the San Jose Earthquakes claimed the only one of the league’s 12 postseason spots still available. It beat Minnesota United, 3-2, on a goal by Marco Urena in second-half injury time to finish sixth in the Western Conference. Toronto finished at the top of the Eastern Conference, having clinched the league’s best record weeks ago. Portland won the Western Conference title.