 Switzerland won the Alpine team event. Sebastien Toutant of Canada won the men’s big air snowboard event, wrapping up the gold with an 84.75 and a competition-best 89.50 on his first two jumps. The American Kyle Mack was second, while Red Gerard, 17, who had won the slopestyle event earlier in the games, placed fifth.  In the crowd was Ivanka Trump taking in her first event of the Olympics with South Korean First Lady Kim Jung-sook. A two-man, two-woman Swiss team out-skied Austria in the final of the Alpine team event. The new event featured four head-to-head matchups down a short slalom course with a small jump. Wendy Holdener of the winning team picked up her third medal of the Games and Ramon Zenhausern his second. Norway won the bronze. A United States team without any of its Alpine stars was eliminated by Britain in the round of 16. The old rivals Norway and Sweden headed into the final shooting segment of the men’s biathlon relay locked in a battle for first. Fredrik Lindstroem of Sweden missed just once. But Emil Svendsen of Norway, whose poor shooting at the end dropped Norway from first to fourth four years ago, missed three times. As a consolation, this time it only dropped Norway from first to second, rather than fourth. One men’s hockey finalist was expected: Russia. One was not: Germany. Russia beat Czech Republic, 3-0, and Germany stunned Canada, 4-3 in the semifinals. Germany has not won a medal in hockey since 1976, when West Germany won a bronze. Jessie Diggins, who won the women’s team sprint, the first cross country gold ever for the United States, was chosen to carry the American flag at the closing ceremony. Diggins was chosen by a vote of team members. Kjeld Nuis of the Netherlands, the 1,500-meter winner, edged Havard Lorentzen of Norway, the 500-meter winner, in the men’s 1,000-meter speedskating race. It was the seventh gold medal for the Netherlands out of 12 events so far. The South Korean women’s curling team kept its remarkable run alive, defeating Japan, 8-7, in a semifinal thriller to advance to Sunday’s final, where the Koreans will face Sweden for gold. In a thrilling end to a battle between the sport’s superpowers, the United States beat Canada by a score of 3-2 in a shootout to win the gold medal in women’s ice hockey. Jocelyne Lamoureux-Davidson’s goal in the sixth round of the shootout sealed the victory for the Americans, giving the team its first gold in the event since 1998. Alina Zagitova of Russia won the Olympic gold medal in women’s figure skating, edging out her countrywoman, Evgenia Medvedeva. The two skaters tied in the free skate, but Zagitova’s small edge in the short program made the difference. Kelsey Serwa and Brittany Phelan won gold and silver for Canada in the women’s ski cross race. “I feel like I couldn’t have done anything different out there, and I really felt great today from our alarm clock to every heat,” Serwa said. Lindsey Vonn, having won the downhill segment, was last to go out of the gate in the slalom part of the Olympic Alpine combined event, with a chance at a medal, maybe even a gold. In all likelihood, it was to be her final Olympic run. But despite her best efforts, Vonn could not conjure any slalom magic. She missed a gate early and was eliminated. Michelle Gisin of Switzerland won the race. Mikaela Shiffrin was sixth in the downhill, but only third in the slalom and won the silver medal, 0.97 seconds back.  Anna Gasser of Austria outdueled Jamie Anderson of the United States to win the big air snowboard competition. Gasser and Anderson outclassed the rest of the field, finishing far ahead. The curling medals will be awarded. Cross-country and speedskating hold their mass start races. 