 U.S. Soccer named Dave Sarachan to coach the men’s national team in an exhibition game against Portugal in November, the team’s first match since its humiliating elimination from qualifying for the 2018 World Cup. The appointment is only for the Portugal match, U.S. Soccer said, making Sarachan more of a one-game caretaker than an interim coach. The choice of Sarachan, 63, to replace Bruce Arena, who resigned after a loss to Trinidad and Tobago cost the Americans a trip to Russia, seems to be one of expediency. The game against Portugal in Leiria on Nov. 14 is the only match currently on the United States team’s calendar, and Sarachan, who had been an assistant coach for the national team, and the rest of Arena’s assistants are under contract through the end of the year. Sarachan spent decades as an assistant coach under Arena at the University of Virginia, in Major League Soccer and during Arena’s two stints leading the national team. His appointment signals that other candidates who had expressed interest in the national team job — notably Tab Ramos, the former American midfielder who coaches the under-20 national team — were unwilling to accept the position with such a tenuous commitment from the federation. The search for Arena’s long-term replacement will begin in earnest after the Portugal game, but it remains unclear how long the process will take. U.S. Soccer plans to appoint a search committee to investigate candidates, but it can only do that after completing an announced autopsy into what went wrong with the men’s qualifying campaign, and after discerning what solutions — or change of direction — it wants the new coach to implement with the national team program. There could be other delays. If U.S. Soccer identifies a candidate who is coaching a different country in next summer’s World Cup, for example, a permanent coach for the national team might not be hired until late in 2018. In any case, it is not likely that a decision will be made until after U.S. Soccer holds its presidential election in February. The current president, Sunil Gulati, has not announced whether he will seek a fourth term but is widely expected to run again. Three other candidates have announced that they will enter the race: the former United States forward Eric Wynalda, who now works for Fox Sports; Steven H. Gans, a lawyer in Boston who has harshly criticized Gulati’s leadership; and Paul Lapointe, an official with the amateur United Premier Soccer League. Sarachan will name his roster for the Portugal match early next month. It is expected that he will call in a team built around Europe-based professionals — players like DeAndre Yedlin, Fabian Johnson and John Brooks, if he is healthy — as well as M.L.S. players not participating in the league’s playoffs and promising young players who might figure into the next qualifying cycle.