 The Oakland Raiders are set to bring Jon Gruden back for a second stint as the head coach, according to various media outlets. The Raiders are planning a news conference on Tuesday to announce that Gruden is leaving the broadcast booth to return to coaching, a person with knowledge of the team’s plans told The Associated Press. The person spoke on condition of anonymity on Friday because the team had made no formal announcement. The Raiders fired Jack Del Rio after a 6-10 season, and news reports said they had immediately turned to Gruden. Gruden spent four years as the Raiders’ head coach, molding a contender out of a team that was 4-12 the season before he was hired, only to be traded to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in 2002. In his first season in Tampa Bay, Gruden and his team beat Oakland in the Super Bowl. Gruden, 54, has been out of coaching for nine years, serving as the lead analyst for ESPN’s “Monday Night Football” telecast. The plan to announce his hiring was first reported by the website Raiders Snake Pit. ESPN reported that Gruden would be paid close to $100 million over a 10-year deal, the longest coaching contract in N.F.L. history. Gruden told ESPN this week that he’d had a good talk with the Raiders owner Mark Davis about returning to the organization and that he believed there was a “good chance” it would happen. Mark Davis inherited the team from his father, Al, who was responsible for giving Gruden his first head coaching job and also for trading him to the Buccaneers. Gruden is scheduled to be in the booth for a playoff game on Saturday in Kansas City, Mo., between the Chiefs and the Tennessee Titans. Gruden coached in Oakland from 1998 to 2001. He led the Raiders to 8-8 records in his first two years, then helped the team reach the A.F.C. title game after the 2000 season. He was at the helm when Oakland returned to the playoffs the next season and lost to the New England Patriots in the “Tuck rule” game. Shortly after that, when Al Davis realized that his coach was determined to leave the franchise as soon as he could, Gruden was traded to Tampa Bay for two first-round draft picks, two second-rounders and $8 million. He also received a contract worth more than three times what Davis had been paying him. Though the Raiders went to the Super Bowl a year later, they faltered for more than a decade afterward. They did not have another winning season until 2016, five years after Al Davis had died. After the Buccaneers’ Super Bowl victory, Gruden did not win another playoff game in his remaining six seasons with Tampa Bay. He has a 95-81 career record. Though the Raiders appeared to single-mindedly pursue Gruden as Del Rio’s replacement, the N.F.L. spokesman Joe Lockhart said the team had satisfied the “Rooney rule” by interviewing minority candidates for the job. “I can tell you we believe the Rooney rule was complied with,” Lockhart said. “Minority candidates were interviewed, and we will wait and see the decision they make.” This would not be the first time the Raiders brought back a coach for a second stint. Al Davis hired Art Shell in 2006, 11 years after firing him the first time. Shell was 2-14 that season and fired after one year. Other teams have also done it, one of the most notable examples being Joe Gibbs in Washington. Gibbs stepped away after the 1992 season with three Super Bowl titles in his career. He came back in 2004 and had a 30-34 record in four seasons, leading Washington to two playoff berths.