 To the Sports Editor: Re “The American Dilemma: Why Do We Still Watch Football?” Feb. 4: Like many others, I made plans to take part in an American tradition last Sunday and gather with friends to watch the Super Bowl. Many of my friends are guys I played high school football with in North Jersey in the 1970s, including one who has been paralyzed since the age of 16, when his neck was broken on the opening kickoff of the third game of our junior year. I saw it happen from the sideline, about 20 feet away. I watched him lie on the field face down for what seemed like an eternity, not moving, until he was taken away by an ambulance. I cried in my bedroom for hours after that game, and I was numb for the rest of the weekend. But when school let out Monday afternoon, I went to my gym locker, changed into my uniform, and joined the rest of the team on the field for practice. It doesn’t seem logical, as I write this, that I would still be a huge fan of football, or that my disabled friend, who has lived a life of immeasurable pain and hardship because of the football injury, would be one, too. But I am, and so is he, and so is everyone else who gathered around the TV last week to watch the game. We go quiet, like everyone else, when a player is slow to get up, but we cheer the next hard hit. It’s football. I’m not sure how I would react today if I had a young son who wanted to play contact sports. The game brought me great joy, both as a player and a fan, but also immense heartbreak. I know this: Something has to change. Gene Gatens Point Pleasant, N.J. To the Sports Editor: Re “Baseball and Unions Point Fingers Over Free-Agent Stalemate,” Feb. 7: Since we’re not really hearing the fans’ point of view in this discussion, here’s my take: I agree that the best players in baseball should be well paid for their talent. At the same time, the fans don’t want to see their favorite team commit millions for years in a deal with a player who then begins his slow decline, holding the team back. If there is so much money in baseball, why don’t the owners lower prices a bit? We fans get tired of being constantly fleeced on the price of tickets. Not to mention the cost of cable to see the games on television and the unbearable barrage of advertising. The owners will still be rich and the players well remunerated, and some of the innocence and joy that have leaked out of the national pastime for decades could be restored. Jonathan Handelsman Paris