 LONDON — More than 40,000 runners will line up for the London Marathon this weekend, but not a single athlete from Russia will be in the professional field. The same was true for the Boston Marathon on Monday, as well as nearly every track and field event for the past 30 months — the major ones like the Olympic Games, and minor ones, as well. Olympic officials renewed their embrace of Russia after the Winter Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea, ruling that the country had served its sentence for conducting an elaborate doping program that corrupted several Olympics. Many governing bodies for individual sports have also eagerly tried to welcome back Russian athletes into the competitions they oversee, but not track and field’s. Last week, track and field’s governing body announced that it had cleared nine Russian athletes to compete in international competition as neutrals. They have been given a rare lifeline to carry on professionally while Russia’s track and field program is suspended indefinitely for participating in a vast, state-backed doping program from 2010 until at least 2015 and failing to fulfill all the requirements for reinstatement. The reprieve may end within a matter of weeks, however, amid continuing Russian intransigence over acknowledging the scale of the scheme. Such a move would represent a major escalation in the top summer Olympic sport’s approach to the crisis, even as others have moved on. The hard-line stance of track and field’s governing body, the International Association of Athletics Federations, led by Sebastian Coe, has led to a stare-down with top Russian officials who continue to deny that the doping program was state-sponsored. The governing body’s patience with Russia is at a breaking point, according to people close to its leaders. The stance has also caused a rift between Coe and Thomas Bach, president of the International Olympic Committee. Bach ended the I.O.C.’s ban on Russia’s athletes after three months, almost immediately after the Pyeongchang Games, where a neutral team consisting of Russian athletes was the third-largest contingent. Track and field’s ban, which may soon become even more severe, has been in effect since 2015. Both men have large egos and lengthy athletic résumés. Their relationship, once close, has cooled over the Russia issue; they have barely spoken in recent weeks. Officials on every side of the disagreement declined to speak publicly about it, citing the sensitive nature of negotiations over the matter. The stalemate shows few signs of ending. The I.A.A.F. will not lift its ban until the World Anti-Doping Agency declares Russia in compliance with all of its regulations. WADA will not do that unless Russia acknowledges the dimensions of the scandal and allows access to a database at the Moscow laboratory that was at the heart of much of the wrongdoing. Russia has shown few signs of ceding to either demand. In meetings, Russian officials continue to deny the existence of the institutionalized doping plot now outlined in three independent reports, according to people involved in the talks. By denying access to the data stored at the laboratory, the Russians are preventing officials from verifying information that may provide conclusive evidence. A person with knowledge of the discussions said an admission of guilt was essential for convincing WADA that Russia would not violate doping rules in the future. “It’s not just about humiliating them,” he said. The scale of Russia’s doping scheme was revealed after Grigory Rodchenkov, the former head of its antidoping laboratory, became a whistle-blower. Rodchenkov, now living in the United States, described an audacious plan that involved state security services and the large-scale swapping of drug-tainted urine samples for clean ones. Top track officials seethed when the International Olympic Committee lifted its ban on Russia’s Olympic committee, saying it weakened the leverage that the international sports federations had over Russia in negotiations. Russia will play host to soccer’s World Cup this year. Craig Reedie, WADA’s president, told 900 delegates at its symposium last month in Lausanne, Switzerland, that Russia had ignored four letters proposing a joint inspection of the laboratory in Moscow where hundreds of samples are stored. “The big losers here are Russian athletes,” Reedie said. “Their participation in future events will continue to be put in doubt, and the rest of the world will not be convinced any meaningful change has taken place. Real action is needed. It’s time for this situation to change. If not, it will damage sport — every Russian victory will be doubted.” Russia has met most of the other requirements for readmission that WADA demanded three years ago. Russia’s antidoping agency has new leadership. It is once again testing athletes. But the day before the symposium, Dmitry Shlyakhtin, the head of Russia’s athletics federation, and Pavel Kolobkov, its sports minister, met with officials from an I.A.A.F task force for monitoring Russian compliance. The group, led by the Norwegian antidoping expert Rune Andersen, made clear that a threat in March to ban Russia from the sport permanently was real. “This severe step is possible if we will not be constantly proving that our athletes and coaches are observing antidoping regulations and rules of tournaments,” Shlyakhtin recently told Tass, Russia’s state-controlled news agency. The stakes are high for all sides. Russia remains one of track and field’s powerhouse nations; only the United States and Kenya have won more world championship medals. Russia has also played a vital role in sponsoring and hosting track and field events, from junior competitions to the 2013 world championships. An outright ban would completely rule out Russians from competing on the international stage, confirming the country’s pariah status. It would also require Russia to reapply for membership, which isn’t guaranteed and raises doubts about its team’s participation in the Olympic Games in Tokyo, which are just two years away. Such a result would be hugely embarrassing for Bach and the Olympic committee. Coe was one of the first people Bach turned to when he looked to reform the I.O.C. after his elevation to president in 2013. But Coe, who has led track’s governing body since 2015, has still not been invited to join the Olympic committee even though he heads probably the most important sport in the Summer Olympics program. In March, Coe announced the possibility of doubling down on penalties against Russia as he was facing his own crisis. The previous day, a British parliamentary committee accused Coe of misleading the lawmakers’ investigation into a scheme by the I.A.A.F.’s previous leadership to extort Russian athletes who had failed drug tests. People close to Coe, who was vice president of the federation during the extortion scheme, said Coe’s threat of a permanent ban on Russia was not related to the parliamentary report that criticized him. Bach has long emphasized a preference for individual justice over collective punishment. He pushed the I.O.C. to clear 169 Russian athletes to participate at the Pyeongchang Games, where they were allowed to wear uniforms bearing the word “Russia.” By contrast, the I.A.A.F allowed only 19 to compete at the 2017 World Championships. They were not identified as Russians. Recent developments appear to vindicate the I.A.A.F.’s cautious approach to restoring Russian membership. The Austrian police, acting on a tip from WADA, raided the headquarters of biathlon’s global governing body last week, linking its leaders with possible efforts to cover up Russian doping. Before the I.A.A.F. meets to decide Russia’s fate, officials will be paying close attention to developments at a crucial WADA board meeting next month in Montreal. Russia will once again be the dominant agenda item, with a monitoring group expected to recommend retaining the suspension on Russia’s antidoping agency.