 LANDOVER, Md. — Kirk Cousins threw two touchdown passes to compensate for an interception that was returned for a score, and the Washington Redskins beat the Giants, 20-10, on Thursday night on a drab field in a drab game between two injury-depleted teams that did not look ready for prime time. The first half, in particular, was devoid of highlights: The two teams, rivals in the N.F.C. East, combined for nine punts and only 6 points. But Cousins led Washington (5-6) on two touchdown drives in the second half, connecting with Jamison Crowder on a 15-yard scoring pass in the third quarter that broke a 3-3 tie, and with Josh Doctson on a 14-yarder with three and a half minutes remaining in the game. In between, cornerback Janoris Jenkins intercepted Cousins’ pass and returned the ball 53 yards to help tie it at 10-10. That one play involved more yardage than Eli Manning and the Giants (2-9) generated in the entire second half. They gained 47 yards and one first down. One possession ended with an interception by Manning, four ended with punts, and another dissolved as they turned the ball over on downs. This was the first time the Redskins had hosted a game on Thanksgiving Day, and they and the Giants did not exactly treat the national television audience to a thriller. Given the ugliness, perhaps it was fitting that it was contested on a terrible-looking field. A large swath of brown ran down the middle, all the way from one end zone to the other. Receivers stumbled and fell on their routes for no apparent reason. Redskins back Samaje Perine gained 3 yards on five carries in the first half, although he did finish the game with 24 runs for 100 yards. Some fans on social media blamed the shaky footing for Cousins’ poor throw that turned into Jenkins’ score. The ineptness was on display all night. One example: On fourth-and-1 at the Giants’ 40-yard line with 10 minutes left in the fourth quarter of a tied game, the Redskins sent out the punt unit, drawing some boos. But Coach Jay Gruden called a timeout and sent his offense back onto the field. Coming out of that break, the Redskins made a late personnel change and drew a delay-of-game penalty — Cousins was trying to call another timeout, which would have been a penalty, too — so they ended up punting. That elicited more jeers from the home crowd. Maybe all the issues were a result of being so depleted by injuries: Washington has placed 15 players on injured reserve this season, including its top two running backs, and the Giants’s total is 14, including the star receiver Odell Beckham Jr.