 JUPITER, Fla. — Call it the Gateway to the World Series. In the first 15 seasons of the 2000s, the winner of the National League pennant usually had to go through St. Louis. Nine times in those years, the Cardinals played in the National League Championship Series. Their last trip ended in San Francisco in October 2014, with a home run over the head of Oscar Taveras in right field. Taveras shuffled off the field with his Cardinals teammates that night, as the Giants mobbed the hitter, Travis Ishikawa, at home plate. Ten days later, while driving under the influence of alcohol in the Dominican Republic, Taveras crashed his red Camaro into a tree, killing himself and his girlfriend. He was 22 and had started the year as a consensus top-three prospect in the majors. The loss was incalculable in human terms, and devastating to the future of the franchise. “I was flying back from his funeral and said, ‘You’re not going to miss Oscar today; you’re going to miss him in 2017,’ ” John Mozeliak, the Cardinals’ president of baseball operations, said recently in his office at spring training. “That feels about right. Because when you look at what we had to do this off-season, we kept looking for that middle-of-the-order hitter, which we were able to acquire with Marcell Ozuna. But had that tragedy not happened, maybe we would’ve had the internal candidate.” The Cardinals spent years in their search. A few weeks after Taveras died, Mozeliak traded for right fielder Jason Heyward. The team tried desperately to keep him as a free agent after the 2015 season, but Heyward chose the Chicago Cubs, who had just beaten the Cardinals in a division series. After missing the playoffs the last two years, the Cardinals hoped to lure another high-profile outfielder, Giancarlo Stanton, from the cost-cutting Miami Marlins. But Stanton invoked his no-trade clause and engineered a deal with the Yankees. So the Cardinals did what they always do: They kept pushing. A few days after Stanton’s rejection, they dealt for one of his Miami teammates, Ozuna, who cannot be a free agent for two more seasons. Ozuna, 27, brings less sizzle than Stanton but similar production: a .312 average, 37 homers and 124 runs batted in last season. No Heyward, no Stanton — and no David Price, either. Price, the former Cy Young Award winner, turned down the Cardinals’ nine-figure offer in free agency to sign with Boston before the 2016 season. The wisdom of those deals is beside the point; the Cardinals, known for winning, kept coming in second. “You get beat up for that,” Mozeliak said. “I think in our case, we’re going to continue to try. Obviously we won’t bat a thousand. There’s going to be people that tell us no. But we still think this is a very exciting place to play, and we still think this team’s going to be very competitive.” The Cardinals usually are. Only 12 major league teams had winning records last season: the 10 playoff teams, plus the Milwaukee Brewers (86-76) and the Cardinals (83-79). It was the Cardinals’ 10th consecutive season with a winning record, an active streak exceeded only by the Yankees, who have 25. As usual, there is a wide gulf between the Yankees and everyone else. But, also as usual, the Cardinals are next in line. The Yankees have the most championships, with 27; the Cardinals are next, with 11. The Yankees have the longest active American League streak of drawing at least three million fans, at 19 seasons; the Cardinals have the longest N.L. streak, at 14. And then there is this: Only two clubs in this century have never finished low enough to gain a top-10 pick in the draft — the Yankees and the Cardinals, of course. “It’s not that other teams don’t expect to win, I’m not saying that at all,” said reliever Jason Motte, who has returned to St. Louis after bouncing to three other teams the last three seasons. “But whether it’s our first meeting, our first game or the last game we have, we’re here to win. My first go-round here, if we lost, it was shocking.” Motte was on the mound the last time the Cardinals won the World Series, in 2011. Now, as a nonroster invitee, he is trying to make his way into a bullpen fortified by the additions of Luke Gregerson, Dominic Leone and Bud Norris, who had 19 saves for the Angels last season. Norris came up with a rebuilding Houston team that had three consecutive 100-loss seasons. The Astros’ patience paid off with a championship last fall, and several other franchises now hope to succeed the same way. But enduring such an overhaul, Norris said, is trying. “I wouldn’t wish that on anyone, because you work so hard to get to the highest level of professional sports to go out and win,” he said. “To go into spring training knowing that wasn’t very likely, it was really difficult. I was happy to see it come full circle for the city of Houston and the fan base, but it didn’t come without a lot of pain beforehand.” Each of the Cardinals’ N.L. Central rivals has had at least three consecutive losing seasons at some point in this decade. The Cardinals’ last such streak ended in 1920, the year Stan Musial was born. They always — always — go for it. “I couldn’t imagine being on the opposite,” said Matt Carpenter, the veteran first baseman. “I don’t understand the philosophy. Why do this if you don’t want to win? I understand some organizations get put in situations where they think that’s the best route. But for me, this game’s too hard, it’s too long, there’s too much sacrifice to go out there and not try to win.” So that is what Mozeliak and his general manager, Michael Girsch, have tried to do. The difference now is that after decades of futility, their divisional rivals in Chicago are thriving. The Cubs won the World Series in 2016, and they continue to improve and monetize Wrigley Field, annually fielding a deep roster of young players and expensive imports. “I’ve always said they were the sleeping giant in our division, because for the most part, Pittsburgh, Milwaukee, Cincinnati, St. Louis, we all kind of look the same in terms of our economics and the type of city we’re from,” Mozeliak said. “We’re not from a major city like Chicago. Now that Chicago has sort of gotten it right, they’re obviously going to be a very competitive team for a long, long time — and we know it.” The Cubs will easily outspend the Cardinals for the third year in a row, and have three players (Heyward plus starters Jon Lester and Yu Darvish) who signed as free agents for a combined $465 million. But the Cardinals are hardly poor — they are starting a 15-year cable deal worth more than $1 billion this year — and they are unconvinced that a tear-down would work, anyway. Ozuna was their major winter move, but the Cardinals also took a two-year, $15.5 million gamble on Miles Mikolas, who struggled as a starter for Texas in 2014 (earned run average: 6.44) before starring in Japan. They have invested heavily in Latin America. They hired a star pitching coach, Mike Maddux, to modernize their approach on the mound, and have high hopes for Alex Reyes, Luke Weaver and Jack Flaherty — homegrown starters like their ace, Carlos Martinez, who is only 26. The Cubs are the clear division favorite. But winning 90 games, as the Cardinals did in their last championship season, seems well within reach. Stripping their roster to build for the future is never an option. “The problem with that strategy is we have 3.4 million come through our gates, and we have a lot of expectations,” Mozeliak said. “We’re not just a St. Louis team, we’re a regional team, and based on that, we’ve always had to keep our foot on the gas, because it’s a demanding place for baseball. “People always think of St. Louis as that sleepy little Midwest town, but they’re passionate about the game. I don’t think we want to go back to the early ’90s, when we were not successful — and even when you do the breakdown, there’s no guarantee you’re going to get it right.”