 LOUISVILLE, Ky. — The Triple Crown-winning trainer Bob Baffert was still in the parking lot when his undefeated chestnut colt Justify drew the seven hole in the starting gate for the 144th running of the Kentucky Derby on Saturday. “I didn’t get a chance to fret,” he said. “I walked in and saw Justify seven and was like, ‘I’ll take that!’” Baffert was safely inside the Aristides Lounge at Churchill Downs when Justify, who defeated the talented colt Bolt d’Oro by three lengths in the Santa Anita Derby on April 7 to fuel the hype, was made the morning-line favorite at 3-1. If Baffert has nerves, he has yet to show them. He and his big horse have been in Kentucky less than 24 hours, but the pair have already attracted a robust crowd at the talent-laden Barn 33. Baffert smiled brightly as he held court while his charges were bathed. He told stories about Derbys past, none more vibrant than American Pharoah’s triumph in 2015, which began a storybook journey that would lead to the first Triple Crown in 37 years. Despite all the good vibes at the barn and at the draw, there was still one big elephant in the room. All three of Justify’s starts came in 2018, and no horse has won the mile-and-a-quarter Derby after not starting as a 2 year old since Apollo in 1882, leading to the dubious distinction, the Curse of Apollo. If ever there were horses who could reverse the curse, however, Justify and Magnum Moon, who is undefeated in four starts in 2018, including going wire-to-wire in the Arkansas Derby on April 14, have excellent shots. “I think when the right horse comes along, it will happen,” said Magnum Moon’s trainer, Todd Pletcher, who is also set to saddle Audible (Post 5, 8-1), Vino Rosso (Post 18, 12-1) and Noble Indy (Post 19, 30-1), which would set a record for the most Derby contenders. Mendelssohn, the runaway winner of the U.A.E. Derby who will break from Post 14, was made the second choice at 5-1, and Magnum Moon breaking from Post 16, was third at 6-1. Justify’s old foe Bolt d’Oro (8-1) will break not far outside him, from Post 11. Baffert’s other Derby horse, Solomini, drew the dreaded 17 hole, from which no horse has ever won. But that did not get him down. He knows he has Justify, and if he breaks well, he said, he will breathe easier. “It’s one of the toughest Derbys that I’ve ever seen and one of the best draws that I’ve ever seen,” Baffert said. “The most important horses got good draws. My excuses are really dwindling, so now I’ve got to come with the horse.” Here’s the full field: Trainer: Jason Servis Jockey: Paco Lopez Odds: 50-1 Trainer: Dale Romans Jockey: Robby Albarado Odds: 30-1 Trainer: Dale Romans Jockey: Corey Lanerie Odds: 30-1 Trainer: Mark Casse Jockey: Jose Lezcano Odds: 30-1 Trainer: Todd Pletcher Jockey: Javier Castellano Odds: 8-1 Trainer: Chad Brown Jockey: Jose Ortiz Odds: 12-1 Trainer: Bob Baffert Jockey: Mike Smith Odds: 3-1 Trainer: Tom Amoss Jockey: James Graham Odds: 50-1 Trainer: Bill Mott Jockey: Irad Ortiz Jr. Odds: 20-1 Trainer: Keith Desormeaux Jockey: Kent Desormeaux Odds: 20-1 Trainer: Mick Ruiz Jockey: Victor Espinoza Odds: 8-1 Trainer: Kieran McLaughlin Jockey: Junior Alvarado Odds: 30-1 Trainer: D. Wayne Lukas Jockey: Luis Contreras Odds: 50-1 Trainer: Aidan O’Brien Jockey: Ryan Moore Odds: 5-1 Trainer: Jerry Hollendorfer Jockey: Drayden Van Dyke Odds: 50-1 Trainer: Todd Pletcher Jockey: Luis Saez Odds: 6-1 Trainer: Bob Baffert Jockey: Flavien Prat Odds: 30-1 Trainer: Todd Pletcher Jockey: John Velazquez Odds: 12-1 Trainer: Todd Pletcher Jockey: Florent Geroux Odds: 30-1 Trainer: Steve Asmussen Jockey: Ricardo Santana Jr. Odds: 50-1 Trainer: Doug O’Neill Jockey: Kyle Frey Odds: 50-1 (He can draw into the field should a horse be scratched before Friday at 9 a.m. Eastern.)