 CHICAGO — They had just earned another day of living with that most unlikely and glorious of titles for the Chicago Cubs: reigning World Series champions. Kyle Schwarber, the affable young left fielder, beamed in the Wrigley Field clubhouse later, saying the whole night had been fun, not stressful at all. “The way we got to look at it is, we don’t have anything to lose,” he said, an absurd idea for a team that had spent more than a century striving for the crown it now wears. But, hey, whatever gets you through the night. Keep on playing those mind games, forever. Four Game 7’s in a row. That is how Joe Maddon, the Cubs’ manager, put it late Tuesday night. The Cubs have played one actual Game 7 under Maddon, last fall in Cleveland, when they won the World Series. But Wednesday was his seventh postseason elimination game over all with the Cubs, and his team has won six. By edging the Los Angeles Dodgers in Game 4 of the National League Championship Series, 3-2, the Cubs ensured that they would not be swept from this round as they were two years ago by the Mets. They also arranged a date with Clayton Kershaw, the best pitcher of this generation, in Game 5. Kershaw has logged just five innings in this series, and for the first time in the last five Octobers, he has not been forced to work on short rest. The Dodgers’ best relievers, Kenley Jansen and Brandon Morrow, also took Wednesday off. “I wouldn’t say that the pressure is on us,” Manager Dave Roberts said. “I think that we’re in a pretty good spot.” Roberts, of course, knows acutely how a three-games-to-none lead can vanish. It has happened just once in major league history, but he was a big reason, with his indelible stolen base for Boston in the ninth inning of Game 4 of the 2004 American League Championship Series against the Yankees. Roberts came around to score the tying run, sparking the Red Sox to a comeback and a title. “I think that was a once-in-a-lifetime thing,” Roberts had joked before Game 4 on Wednesday. “Teams can’t do that any more.” Logically, it makes little sense to think the Cubs will. They used their closer, Wade Davis, for 48 pitches on Wednesday — the most pitches Davis has thrown in 269 appearances, postseason included, since converting to a full-time relief role in 2014. His previous high since then was 44, in the division-series clincher last week. Maddon ruled out Davis for Game 5, although Davis said he would see how he feels after getting treatment and playing catch. The Cubs seem to have few other reliable relievers — besides, perhaps, Pedro Strop, who has not had a save in more than two years. Then again, in Game 7 last November the Cubs turned to Mike Montgomery, who had no previous career saves, to secure the final out. Crazy things happen almost nightly this time of year, and the Cubs beating Kershaw would not be that wild. They did it here last fall in the N.L.C.S. clincher, flattening Kershaw with seven hits and five runs (four earned) in his five innings. In Game 1 last week, Albert Almora Jr. touched Kershaw for a two-run homer, and the Arizona Diamondbacks ripped four home runs off him during his victory in the division series. In 45 innings since returning from a back injury on Sept. 1, Kershaw has a modest 3.80 earned run average, allowing 10 homers among his 44 hits. He can still dominate — he is averaging a strikeout per inning — but the Cubs have a plan. “It’s good that we get to see another arm that we’re familiar with, so there’s a great feeling going into tomorrow,” shortstop Addison Russell said. “He definitely has great stuff. We just can’t chase out of the zone.” Kershaw allowed a career-high 23 homers this regular season, part of a leaguewide trend that Commissioner Rob Manfred insists has nothing to do with the baseballs. Whatever the cause, home runs are way up, to the point that the Cubs have scored no other way this series: five solo homers, plus Almora’s two-run shot. “That’s fine,” Schwarber said, stifling at laugh at the notion that this might concern him. “Runs are runs, man, any way you can get them in. Obviously, we want to manufacture some runs, but if we win a ballgame, 3-2, with some home runs, I’ll take that, too.” With a few more homers, a strong start from Jose Quintana and a better performance from their bullpen, the Cubs have a shot in Game 5. That might require a wobbly outing from Kershaw, who said on Wednesday that he was fine. “I don’t feel any different than when I feel normal,” Kershaw said. “I feel normal, which is great.” Yet since the back problem, which cost him almost six weeks, Kershaw has alternated between strong and shaky. That could be his new normal — for now, anyway — though he retains his reputation for voracious work. “Of all the starters that I’ve seen come from other organizations, over time they’re amazed at how hard he works — and even more so with the things that he has to do now to keep his back healthy and continue to perform at this level,” the pitching coach Rick Honeycutt said on Wednesday. “Still not saying he’s back to where he was before, but you still see the effort level and preparation be as good as it can be.” The chance for Kershaw to finally lift the Dodgers to the World Series — at the very site of their emphatic dismissal last October — is what makes this month so enchanting. All that could spoil it are the flawed, but swaggering, World Series champions. “We know that we get to play at least nine more innings tomorrow, and we’re looking forward to that,” Schwarber said. “We’re not going to go down quietly.”