 Patience may pay off for those fantasy owners who have stuck with certain players who were expected to be fantasy stars this season but who have performed poorly over all. You may have dropped Browns running back Isaiah Crowell after he failed to score more than 9 fantasy points in any of his first seven games. But after topping 15 points in each of his last two, and with a remaining schedule that includes favorable matchups against the Chargers, the Packers and the Ravens, things are looking up. Follow our live coverage of N.F.L. Week 11 here. Lions quarterback Matthew Stafford was drafted as a QB1 in most fantasy leagues, but scored 16 or fewer fantasy points in five of his first six games. But over the last three weeks, only Cam Newton and Russell Wilson have scored more fantasy points at quarterback. Could Raiders quarterback Derek Carr be another late-season redemption story for fantasy owners? He’s among the players to start in Week 11 of the fantasy football season. Alex Smith (KC at Giants) — Fantasy’s third best quarterback over all has cooled off. He has not topped 20 fantasy points since Week 7 against the Raiders. But he has been consistent, and still threw for two touchdowns against the Cowboys in Week 9, before the Chiefs’ bye. Expect him to return to elite form against the Giants, who are tied with the Patriots as the team that has given up the most fantasy points to quarterbacks (21.2 fantasy points per game). The Giants have also allowed a passing touchdown on 12.8 percent of passes over the past two weeks, which is the most in the league. Derek Carr (OAK vs. Patriots) — Carr has had a disappointing fantasy season, but he has a chance to make his fantasy owners feel better against the Patriots, who have allowed six of the nine quarterbacks they’ve faced score at least 18 fantasy points. Carr has actually performed much better over the past three weeks, topping 300 passing yards in each game, including Week 7’s monster 30-point performance against the Chiefs. Also consider: Eli Manning (NYG vs. Chiefs) Melvin Gordon (LAC vs. Bills) — Week 10 was brutal for Gordon owners, as the back totaled just 27 rushing yards on 16 carries while his teammate Austin Ekeler was the third highest scoring back of the week with 21.9 fantasy points. Expect some order to return to the fantasy universe this week as Gordon should return to form against the Bills, who somehow let three Saints running backs to top 10 fantasy points last week and who have allowed seven rushing touchdowns to backs over the past three games. Joe Mixon (CIN at Broncos) — It has been frustrating to Mixon’s fantasy owners that he hasn’t seen more touches, especially with how poorly the rest of the Bengals’ backfield has performed. Mixon hasn’t received more than 13 carries since Week 5. But he has scored a touchdown in each of the last two games and is up against a Broncos defense that has given up the second most fantasy points to the position over the past three weeks (28.3 F.P.P.G.). Also consider: Jamaal Williams (GB vs. Ravens) DeAndre Hopkins (HOU vs. Cardinals) — It appears that Hopkins can thrive no matter who his quarterback is, as he has over 25 fantasy points with Tom Savage behind center, including 11.1 in a tough matchup with the Rams last week. The matchup with the Cardinals is much easier on paper, as they have yielded the fifth most F.P.P.G. to receivers this season (24.0). But Hopkins will probably have to contend with the top cornerback Patrick Peterson. Still, as last week’s 14 targets illustrated, Hopkins is going to get enough chances to make good things happen and has proved to be a matchup-proof fantasy receiver this season. Sterling Shepard (NYG vs. Chiefs) — The Chiefs are another team that is bad at covering opposing receivers on the whole but has a star defensive back to consider in fantasy matchups. Cornerback Marcus Peters doesn’t typically cover slot receivers, which means Shepard could avoid him for much of the game. As the clear top receiving target in the Giants’ offense, Shepard hauled in 11 catches for 144 yards last week. Also consider: Jarvis Landry (MIA vs. Buccaneers); Larry Fitzgerald (ARI at Texans) Jared Cook (OAK vs. Patriots) — To coincide with Derek Carr’s recent resurgence, Cook has 18 receptions for 290 yards over the past three games. Some touchdowns would be nice, and that could change this week, as the Patriots allow the eighth most touchdowns per game to the position. DET at Bears; PIT vs. Titans Greg Zuerlein (LAR at Vikings); Kai Forbath (MIN vs. Rams).