 Darrell Wallace Jr. had his first conversation with Richard Petty, his new boss, when they bumped into each other last year at a voice recording session for the animated film “Cars 3.” Wallace played Bubba Wheelhouse, an emerging stock car driver. Petty played, as in real life, the King. “Hey man, keep doing what you’re doing,” Wallace recalled Petty telling him. Petty was apparently not just making small talk. When the driver of the top car on Petty’s team, Aric Almirola, was injured in a wreck in May, Petty tapped Wallace to replace Almirola until he returned. Wallace drove in four races, finishing higher in the pack each time. “It’s like he’d been there forever,” Petty said in a telephone interview this week. When Almirola left Richard Petty Motorsports in September after a sponsor shake-up, Petty knew exactly whom he wanted as a replacement. On Wednesday, he announced that Wallace, 24, had been hired to drive the No. 43 car that Petty made famous. When Wallace, who is known as Bubba, drove in a June 11 race at Pocono Raceway, he became the first African-American to compete in a top-level Nascar event since 2006. Wallace won a Truck Series race in 2013 to become the first African-American to win a national series race since 1963. The driver in 1963 was Wendell Scott, who is the only black driver to race full time in Nascar’s top series; his last year as a regular was 1971. While having diverse drivers is important to Nascar, Petty said: “We didn’t look at that as much as Nascar did. We just needed a driver. We didn’t care if he was green, white or purple, if he gets the job done.” It seems like an unlikely partnership. Petty, 80, who won a record 200 races and seven championships, made headlines last month when he said that anyone who did not stand for the national anthem before sporting events “ought to be out of the country,” adding: “What got ’em where they’re at? The United States.” Wallace, who was born in Mobile, Ala., to a white father and a black mother, has a somewhat different opinion, saying of the protests started by quarterback Colin Kaepernick: “I understand Colin’s reasoning behind it. I really get it.” “At the same time,” he said, standing for the anthem is something “I’ve always done.” Many believe that this association will benefit everyone — driver, team and sport. Richard Petty Motorsports has scuffled in recent years, with Almirola, a 33-year-old Cuban-American, winning only one race in six seasons. “We’re starting with a clean slate,” Petty said. Wallace has raced mainly on Nascar’s second-tier Xfinity Series and the truck series for five years and was looking for a full-time shot at the top Monster Energy series. When Almirola’s sponsor moved to Stewart-Haas Racing (where Almirola is expected to land), Wallace was the only driver considered. Brian Moffitt, the chief executive of Richard Petty Motorsports, said: “We felt like he was ready to make this jump. When he drove for Aric, he impressed us — impressed Richard, impressed the team. I think he impressed everybody.” Corporate sponsors for the No. 43 car — still Petty blue, because Petty had to mix blue and white paint to cover a racecar decades ago — are likely to be announced in the coming weeks. Wednesday’s announcement, Moffitt said, should stoke even more interest. “Having Bubba definitely opened a lot of doors,” Moffitt said, “and Richard still appeals to all age groups.” Nascar is optimistic that the emergence of Wallace, especially in a car owned by a racing icon, will generate interest on its own. With television ratings and attendance slipping, Nascar has brought in what Petty called “a new regime” of drivers. Of the eight drivers still in contention for the 2017 championship, two are under 25: Ryan Blaney, 23, who will move from the small Wood Brothers team to Team Penske after the season, and Chase Elliott, 21, the son of the former champion Bill Elliott who drives for the powerful Hendrick Motorsports. (Another top young driver, Kyle Larson, 25, was unexpectedly knocked out of the 10-race playoffs on Sunday when he wrecked early in a race at Kansas Speedway. William Byron, 19, will join Hendrick next year at the top level and will drive Jeff Gordon’s former No. 24 car.) Blaney and Wallace have been particularly adept at connecting to fans through social media and a regular racing podcast called The Glass Case of Emotion. Jill Gregory, Nascar’s chief marketing officer, said their efforts had been “a great way for drivers to show their personalities.” She added, “It’s really given those fans a reason to engage.” Wednesday’s announcement leaves one fewer opening for free agents, including the most prominent female driver, Danica Patrick, who was dropped by Stewart-Haas Racing in September. Gregory said Patrick was still hoping to land with a race team in 2018. Wallace, who came through Nascar’s Drive for Diversity program, is aware of his place in the marketing side of the sport, saying, “They’re trying to bring in a new face and demographic.” But the ride with Petty appeals to him in a much simpler way. Richard Petty Motorsports is a stock car throwback — a team with North Carolina roots, a rich history and an operation that feels more like a family than a business. “You can cut loose and lay back — that’s just how Richard is,” Wallace said. Petty laughed when he said of Wallace: “He fit in really good with our people — our public-relations people, our sponsors. It was like he already knew what was going on.” Wallace said he hoped to drive in two more truck series races this year before moving to Petty’s team, for whom he will make his full-time debut at the Daytona 500 in February. “I’m ready to roll,” he said.