 When Coach John Beilein led Richmond to the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament in 1998, he had so much time to fill between the Colonial Athletic Association Tournament and Selection Sunday that he took his players fishing. Such is life for midmajor programs, which sometimes punch their tickets to the N.C.A.A. tournament a week — or more — before the major conferences have even gathered to crown their league champions. In that waiting period, keeping a team sharp can require coaching methods that have nothing to do with basketball. So there are fishing trips. And whiffle ball games. And intrasquad scrimmages. “Just anything to change things up,” Beilein said this week. Beilein coaches Michigan now, in the undeniably major Big Ten Conference. But the league will hold its tournament a week early this year, squeezing into the schedule for Madison Square Garden, which the Big East had already booked for the prime week. With Rutgers and Maryland now in the traditionally Midwestern Big Ten, the conference’s commissioner, Jim Delany, pressed for the schedule shift to give the league a chance to promote itself in the New York market. The reality of the move for Beilein, and several other coaches, is the prospect of having to review a midmajor coaching manual. If Michigan (24-7) qualifies for the N.C.A.A. tournament — ESPN currently projects the 15th-ranked Wolverines as a No. 6 seed — it and the rest of the Big Ten qualifiers will face at least a week off before learning the identity of their opponents in the tournament. The Big Ten tournament opens Wednesday evening at the Garden. Michigan will play its first game Thursday, and the top seeds — Michigan State, Ohio State, Purdue and Nebraska — on Friday. The championship game is Sunday afternoon, and then — welcome or not — the Big Ten’s scheduled break will begin. Depending on when they lose in New York, the N.C.A.A.-bound Big Ten teams could face a break of as much as two weeks going into their biggest games of the year. Beilein said he would probably fill the time with high-intensity scrimmages. Michigan State Coach Tom Izzo said he would prefer some sunshine. “We’re thinking of going to the Bahamas for the week to have a little spring break,” he joked. Like most coaches, Izzo is a creature of habit, and he wasn’t initially supportive of having the tournament a week early. Like Beilein, he said he understood the thinking behind the move, but with the off-week looming, he became less sure it was the right call. So did the Big Ten office. In an interview with The Chicago Tribune last week, Delany, the commissioner, acknowledged the schedule change “wasn’t good, wasn’t healthy,” and he issued what amounted to a public apology. “We won’t do it again this way,” Delany said, “and I take responsibility for asking the coaches.” (Next year, the Big Ten tournament will be at the United Center in Chicago, following its typical timetable.) The compromises in the conference schedule predated this week. To accommodate the tournament’s early start, the Big Ten played a compressed regular-season schedule, with several conference games taking place in early December and the bulk of the schedule starting in early January. That forced some teams to play tough games before they were ready, Izzo said, even as the change baked in a week of rest and recuperation before the N.C.A.A. tournament for the lucky ones who will be going. The rest could prove helpful, especially for teams with injured players, or those looking to work out problems in practice. Of course, if all — or even most — of the Big Ten’s teams lose in the first weekend of the N.C.A.A. tournament, the coaches and their teams’ fans will almost certainly blame the break. “Coaches are no different than anybody else,” Izzo said. “If we have some success, or Michigan or Purdue or Indiana or Ohio State, if anybody has some success in the N.C.A.A. Tournament, the week’s going to be good. “If you fail, the week’s going to be bad.” As for whether he will again take his team fishing, Beilein conceded that was unlikely. “That was in Richmond,” he said. “We’d have to do ice fishing here still for a couple more weeks.”