 The best season of quarterback Josh McCown’s career has come to an abrupt and painful end. He will miss the Jets’ final three games with a broken left hand that will require surgery. “It’s big for him and it’s big for us because he’s been leading us all year offensively,” Coach Todd Bowles said Monday during a conference call. Bowles announced that Bryce Petty will start in McCown’s place at New Orleans on Sunday. Petty, a fourth-rounder out of Baylor in 2015, started four games for the Jets last season. “It’s next-man-up mentality and the next man has to step up,” Bowles said. Christian Hackenberg, a second-year player, remains behind Petty on the depth chart. Bowles said “it’s possible” the Jets could bring in another quarterback this week as insurance. McCown, 38, was injured when he was hit by Denver’s Shane Ray in the third quarter of the Jets’ 23-0 loss on Sunday. An X-ray revealed that McCown’s hand was broken, and additional tests Monday revealed the severity of the injury. “Sometimes you get breaks where you don’t need surgery,” Bowles said, “but he needs surgery, so that was that.” McCown was emotional after the game while reflecting on what had been the best season of his 15-year NFL career. He set career highs with 18 touchdowns and 2,926 yards passing — and hadn’t missed a snap all season before leaving briefly Sunday after taking a shot to his hip. McCown came back, only to be knocked out for the rest of the season. “It’s been the best because of the guys, not numbers,” McCown said while fighting back tears. “It’s been the best because of the group of men in the locker room. I’m just proud to be a part of it and I’m so thankful they let me be a part of this team.” McCown, who signed a one-year, $6 million deal in the off-season, will be a free agent this winter. It is uncertain whether the Jets plan to re-sign him — or if McCown will even want to play another season. Bowles said the two spoke Monday and the meeting was not as emotional as Sunday, but the quarterback’s future was not discussed. “We put a lot of things in perspective and me and Josh have a great relationship,” Bowles said. “I have respect for him as a player and as a man, and we’ll move on from there, but we’ll forever be connected.”