 Leading by 24-0 in the final minute of the first half of the Las Vegas Bowl on Saturday, Boise State, with a rout in the making, committed two turnovers that were returned for touchdowns, allowing Oregon back into the game. But the Broncos regrouped and responded. Cedrick Wilson caught 10 passes for 221 yards and a touchdown, Kekaula Kaniho returned an interception 53 yards for a score, and No. 25 Boise State beat Oregon, 38-28. Brett Rypien threw for 362 yards and two touchdown passes, with two interceptions, to help the Broncos end a three-game losing streak against Power 5 opponents. Ryan Wolpin rushed for two touchdowns. Troy Dye and Tyree Robinson each scored a defensive touchdown, and Justin Herbert completed 26 of 36 passes for 233 yards with two touchdowns and two interceptions for the Ducks in Coach Mario Cristobal’s debut. Boise State forced four turnovers in the first half. “I thought the defense was dominating today,” Boise State Coach Bryan Harsin said. “We spotted them a few points; otherwise, the score is completely different.” The Ducks’ defensive touchdowns just before halftime masked the Broncos’ dominant performance in the half. Boise State outgained Oregon, 294 yards to 77, in the first half and reached Ducks territory on eight of 10 possessions. “I think a lot of teams would fold their tent when they’re down 24-0 or things don’t go their way,” Cristobal said. “You look at the way they just kept fighting, scratching and clawing to make this thing a competitive game — to me, that’s the positive.” CURE BOWL Conner Manning threw for 276 yards and a touchdown to lead Georgia State a 27-17 victory over Western Kentucky in Orlando, Fla. The victory gave Georgia State a winning record and the first bowl victory in its eight-year football history. “There was no doubt in my mind that we were the team that wanted it and we were going to win it,” said Shawn Elliott, the Panthers’ first-year coach. “We’re a bunch of misfit coaches and misfit players that learned how to work hard and fight every day.” Manning threw a 42-yard touchdown pass to Roger Carter, Demarcus Kirk scored on a 26-yard run, and Kyler Neal finished a 16-play drive, which took up nine minutes of the fourth quarter, with a 1-yard touchdown run that put Georgia State up, 27-10. NEW MEXICO BOWL Keion Davis rushed for 141 yards, including a 68-yard touchdown run, and Marshall had two other big scoring plays in a 31-28 victory over Colorado State in Albuquerque. Chase Litton threw for 262 yards and two touchdowns. Tyre Brady had 165 yards receiving and gave the Thundering Herd the lead in the second quarter with a 76-yard touchdown reception. Tyler King added a 90-yard rushing touchdown. “The offense started us off, and the defense won it in the end,” Brady said. The Thundering Herd are 11-2 in bowl games, and 5-0 under Coach Doc Holliday. NEW ORLEANS BOWL Brandon Silvers passed for four touchdowns and ran for one more, and Troy produced five turnovers on the way to defeating North Texas, 50-30, at the Superdome. Running back Josh Anderson, filling in for the injured starter Jordan Chunn, rushed for 113 yards and two touchdowns, and Silvers also scored on a short run to help Troy win for the 21st time in two seasons. Silvers passed for 306 yards. Two of his touchdown passes went to Damion Willis, who had 136 yards and two touchdown receptions. His 11 catches tied a New Orleans Bowl record. Mason Fine passed for 303 yards and three touchdowns for North Texas but was intercepted twice and fumbled twice. He finished with Mean Green single-season records of 4,052 yards and 31 touchdowns passing. “Their front seven — that defensive line — gave me fits all day,” Fine said. “We never got in a rhythm. We never got comfortable.” CELEBRATION BOWL Lamar Raynard scored on a 1-yard sneak with 38 seconds left, and unbeaten North Carolina A&amp;T won its second Celebration Bowl in three years, defeating Grambling State, 21-14, in Atlanta. Undefeated N.C. A&amp;T won its fourth national championship among historically black colleges and universities. The Aggies had claimed titles in 1990 and 1999 in addition to their 2015 victory over Alcorn State in the first Celebration Bowl. “It’s an awesome feeling to be 12-0 right now,” Aggies Coach Rod Broadway said. “I’m just extremely proud of our players, and I’m happy for our school.” Grambling, which edged North Carolina Central last year, was trying for a second straight H.B.C.U. national title. F.C.S. PLAYOFFS  Marcus Marshall broke loose on two long touchdown runs, Jimmy Moreland made three interceptions, and James Madison, the top seed and the defending Football Championship Subdivision champion, booked a return trip to the title game with a 51-16 semifinal victory at home over fifth-seeded South Dakota State (11-3), which gave up 10 turnovers. The undefeated Dukes won their 26th straight game, tying an F.C.S. record, and will face No. 2 seed North Dakota State. The championship game will be played Jan. 6 in Frisco, Tex. James Madison also won a title in 2004. DIVISION II CHAMPIONSHIP  Luis Perez led Texas A&amp;M-Commerce to its first N.C.A.A. Division II title and its second football championship, throwing for 323 yards and two touchdowns in a 37-27 victory over West Florida in Kansas City, Kan. Texas A&amp;M-Commerce also won the 1972 N.A.I.A. title. N.A.I.A. CHAMPIONSHIP Justin Green ran for 132 yards and two touchdowns to help St. Francis (Indiana) beat Reinhardt, 24-13, in Daytona Beach, Fla., for its second consecutive title. St. Francis has not lost since Oct. 1, 2016.