 There was always another boy in the Jacksonville, Fla., neighborhood who thought he could outsprint Chandra Cheeseborough. So all the children would go watch them line up on an empty back street, and then Cheeseborough would dust off this latest challenger as she had all the others. “Every weekend, someone new,” she said. “I kind of got the feeling after a while I was going to be good at this.” It was just another fond memory for Cheeseborough, 59, a two-time Olympic gold medalist in 1984. She was at the New York Athletic Club this week, along with some of the greatest athletic stars in United States history, as part of the inaugural induction class for the National Track and Field High School Hall of Fame. They were telling their origin stories, and something became obvious, very quickly: The older they get, the more fun they had when they were young. And, yes, the less money they made. It’s the same in every sport, really. Why should track and field be any different? Their lives were lived back then in more than one lane. Cheeseborough remembered playing several sports at Jean Ribault High School, while the world-record-setting hurdler Renaldo Nehemiah starred at quarterback and played varsity basketball for Scotch Plains-Fanwood in New Jersey — even while he was breaking the 13-second mark in the 120-yard hurdles in 1977. “The diversity kept you interested,” Nehemiah said. “Yes, we had more fun. Of course, there was no financial component to it back then. Now, there’s a strategy to it.” You have to specialize early — as the more modern stars like Allyson Felix, who still competes at age 32, and Alan Webb, 35, testified at the induction. Felix, a six-time Olympic gold medalist, gave up basketball, her first love, by freshman year at Los Angeles Baptist High School. Webb dropped swimming to concentrate on middle-distance races, then posted a time of 3 minutes 53.43 seconds in the mile in 2001 to shatter Jim Ryun’s prep mark from 1965. The swimming had taught him to push through pain, Webb said, but there was just no time to juggle two sports. The tales told by Cheeseborough and Nehemiah were more romantic, somehow. They competed when there was no great monetary reward awaiting at the tape, no Nike endorsements; only the carrot of a college scholarship and a possible place on the United States Olympic team. Nehemiah fell in love with hurdling while watching Rod Milburn win gold at the Munich Olympics in 1972. He, too, was the fastest kid on his block, and Nehemiah would practice his new obsession by jumping over a split-rail fence, back and forth, honing his form. “The balance, the power, it was such a graceful, pretty event,” Nehemiah, 58, said. “I became one with the hurdle. I was a sponge, learning about the event reel-to-reel.” His mother died during his freshman year in high school, yet Nehemiah pressed on through that difficult time and then through an injury that sidelined him for a full year. With a skinny 5-foot-10 frame, he decided to turn aside football scholarship offers and run track at the University of Maryland. When modest trust funds became available to student-athletes in 1981, some of the financial pressure on him eased. The real money, though, could only be found elsewhere. He turned to football after college, as a wide receiver for the San Francisco 49ers from 1982 to 1985. It wasn’t until Nehemiah, nicknamed Skeets, had collected some decent salaries in the N.F.L. that he came back to his first love, hurdling. Now, of course, everything is different for elite athletes. While track and field may struggle in America, the sport is popular in other countries. Overseas, some track meets are hugely profitable. Endorsements are available. Usain Bolt was estimated by Forbes magazine to earn more than $23 million at the height of his career, in 2014. The global governing body for the sport, the I.A.A.F., awarded prize money totaling $3.2 million for its so-called Diamond League events in 2017, and handed out $60,000 to first-place finishers at its world championships. Nehemiah fully understands these fresh dynamics because he is immersed in them. Since 1998, he has been an agent for track stars like Michael Johnson, Justin Gatlin and Felix, traveling 150,000 miles or so every year to keep up with events, and with his clients. He has been on the management end for so long, this induction call came as a pleasant reminder of a past life. “I almost forgot I used to be someone in sports,” Nehemiah said. Cheeseborough, back in high school, set records of 10.3 seconds at 100 yards and 23.3 seconds at 220 yards. She would probably own more Olympic medals today, if not for the United States’ boycott of the Moscow Olympics in 1980. Jimmy Carter’s administration gave her, and others, a Congressional Gold Medal in place of the real thing. Four years later, she took silver at 400 meters in the 1984 Los Angeles Games, then captured two gold medals within an hour in the 4-by-100-meter and 4-by-400-meter relays. She was a memory to behold, flying down the track with that Afro hairstyle, that lilting stride and name. “I wasn’t tired at all,” she said about the tight Olympic schedule. “If you lose, then you’re tired.” Many of the 26 Hall of Fame inductees planned to stick around for the national indoor championships at the armory in Washington Heights, held over the weekend. There were potential Hall of Famers to scout, and to recruit, like the sprinters Tyrese Cooper of Miami and Tamari Davis of Gainesville, Fla.; and the two-miler Katelyn Tuohy of North Rockland High School in Thiells, N.Y. Cheeseborough, as director of men’s and women’s track and field at Tennessee State, knows about this new breed of athlete. She has learned to go with the flow. “They all want to specialize now,” she said. “Don’t want to do anything else.” One-track minds, in a sport that now rewards narrower ambitions.