 Despite missing two starters, the Knicks erased an early 17-point deficit to tie the Orlando Magic midway through the final quarter. That’s when Nikola Vucevic took over. Vucevic scored 34 points, including 8 straight in a decisive 10-0 fourth-quarter run by Orlando, and the visiting Magic beat the Knicks, 105-100, on Sunday. With the score tied at 85 midway through the fourth quarter, Vucevic made a short basket, a 3-point play and a 3-point shot in succession to give the Magic the lead for good. “In the fourth quarter, I know it’s a time when we need to win a game, we needed to close the game,” Vucevic said. “So, I wanted to keep my aggressiveness and carry my team.” Evan Fournier scored 20 points, Jonathon Simmons added 16 and Elfrid Payton had 15 for Orlando. The Knicks were without their top two scorers, Kristaps Porzingis (25.8 points per game) and Tim Hardaway Jr. (17.8), who both missed the game with injuries. Michael Beasley, who replaced Porzingis in the starting lineup, led the Knicks with 21 points. Courtney Lee had 19, and Enes Kanter added 18 points and 16 rebounds. “We were missing two of our big dogs and that hurt us a lot,” Beasley said. “But, we still fought.” Porzingis sprained his right ankle in Wednesday’s win over Miami, while Hardaway was sidelined by a left leg injury. Damyean Dotson, who replaced Hardaway, made his first career start. The Knicks used an 11-4 run to pull within 3 at 99-96 on a 3-pointer by Jarrett Jack with 27 seconds left. Fournier then hit two free throws with 23 seconds remaining, and Jack followed with a reverse layup with 16 seconds left. Fournier again connected on two free throws, this time with 13 seconds left. “We played a solid game, made some mistakes, but we held those guys to 100,” Fournier said. “Could have done better, but we are headed in the right direction.” Although the Magic were 3 of 7 from 3-point range in the first quarter, they went 3 of 21 the rest of the game. Beasley scored his final 2 points on a layup with four seconds remaining before Vucevic hit a pair of clinching free throws. “We did well. We fought back,” Beasley added. “We dug ourselves a hole deep. The first group got to do a lot better starting the game.” The Knicks scored the first 6 points of the third quarter and took their biggest lead of the game, 57-54, on a jumper by Dotson. However, Orlando answered with its own 6-0 streak and went on to take a 78-76 lead after three quarters. The Magic never trailed again. “At this point, we’re trying to get as many wins as we can to hang in there with this tough stretch of our schedule,” Magic Coach Frank Vogel said. “Whatever breaks we get, we’ll take. It was a good one for us.” After ending a nine-game losing streak with a 121-108 win over Oklahoma City on Nov. 29, the Magic have won two of three. Orlando had lost seven straight road games. Orlando has beaten the Knicks in both meetings this season. The Magic won the first game, 112-99, in Orlando on Nov. 8. The Magic now lead the series with the Knicks, 55-53.