 PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — Torin Yater-Wallace is due some decent luck in the freestyle skiing halfpipe competition this week. Between injury and illness, Yater-Wallace, a native of Aspen, Colo., had a scary run of bad fortune from 2013 to 2015. “I’ve dealt with some unfortunate instances and bumps the last few years,” Yater-Wallace said last week. “It doesn’t change how I feel about what I’ve done in my skiing career and my passion for what I do. Essentially I just kept doing what I did before.” Only 22, he established himself as a freestyle skiing prodigy more than a decade ago. In 2012, he pulled off the first switch 1800, which is five full rotations, in a competition. Then things started to go awry. In late 2013, he went to a dry-needle therapy session for a sore shoulder. The physical therapist who usually performed the acupuncture-like procedure was not in. Yater-Wallace let his substitute do it. Bad idea. The needle went too deep and punctured his lung. A few weeks later, he crashed during a training run for Olympic qualifying, cracking two ribs and re-collapsing the lung. “I’ve stayed away from needles since then,” Yater-Wallace said. Coaches made him a discretionary pick for the Sochi Games in 2014, but rain there made a mess of the halfpipe, and Yater-Wallace did not even qualify for the final. The real problems hit in late 2015, when Yater-Wallace started experiencing shortness of breath and pain in his side. He made three visits to an emergency room in Park City, Utah, and was eventually diagnosed with a virus. On a fourth visit, doctors found that his fever was soaring and his lungs were filling. The situation was dire enough that he was airlifted to Salt Lake City, about 20 miles to the northwest. On the ride over, Yater-Wallace said that he was mainly worried about how much the bill for the medevac was going to be and how he was going to pay it. There were larger concerns looming. The doctors in Salt Lake City discovered an infection causing severe damage to his liver and gallbladder, prompting them to place him in a state of medically induced paralysis for several days to help him heal. He spent about a month in the hospital. While in recovery, he lost 25 pounds and much of his muscle mass. “You feel completely worthless,” he said of that time. His comeback had to wait until he could support the weight of his own body. Before long, though, all he wanted to do was ski. He competed in the 2016 X Games only six weeks after he emerged from the hospital. His rush to return to competition after such a serious medical issue sounded rash to some, but for those who know him, it was hardly a surprise. “Skiing to Torin is a release, he skis with that aggression,” said Michael Spencer, his close friend and agent. “His skiing is where he puts it all out there and expresses himself.” Yater-Wallace faces some stiff competition in Wednesday’s event. He finished sixth at the X Games last year. His teammate David Wise is the defending gold medalist. But Yater-Wallace said all the bad luck could work in his favor because it “serves as motivation to get back here and hopefully put down a run I am proud of after unfortunately dealing with a hard time in Sochi,” he said. He added, “I’m happy to be back and trying to ski at my fullest potential and see where that puts me.”