 Meet the durable, anytime bullpen ace. He is not the closer, yet he can be, at times. He is not the setup man, but he can fill that role, too. When a team is winning, and needs to preserve that lead in a pivotal moment, it calls the bullpen ace. For the Milwaukee Brewers, that pitcher is Josh Hader, a string bean lefty with long hair, glasses, tattoos and a funny uniform number. Hader slings fastballs and sliders at menacing angles and has absurdly dominated hitters this season. Entering Friday, Hader had pitched in seven games, all Brewers victories, all for at least five batters. He had entered as early as the fourth inning and as late as the eighth. In those seven appearances, he faced 41 hitters and struck out 25, with a 1.54 earned run average and a staggering 19.3 strikeouts per nine innings. “We’re using him as a multiple-inning pitcher in games we’re winning,” Brewers Manager Craig Counsell said. “It’s what I think his skill set is suited best for at this point. It’s a little bit of a different role, but we think we’ve found a niche for him to be really successful and help us win.” Hader, 24, turns his back to the hitter as he uncoils his 6-foot-3, 185-pound frame, hiding the ball as long as possible as he steps toward the first-base line and launches his body to the plate, whipping his arm back across his body for the pitch. He is similar in style to Madison Bumgarner, Andrew Miller, Chris Sale and Alex Wood, lefties whose deceptive deliveries augment their stuff. “I watch those guys and see how they pitch to other hitters, but mechanically not so much,” Hader said. “I really just take after myself and just do what I do.” Hader said he had roughly the same delivery and two-pitch mix at Old Mill High School in Millersville, Md., where his hometown Baltimore Orioles scouted him. When Hader learned they had drafted him, in the 19th round in 2012, he was actually driving to Oriole Park at Camden Yards for the Brooks Robinson High School All-Star Game. Thirteen months later, though, the Orioles traded him to Houston for pitcher Bud Norris. Two years after that, the Astros dealt him to Milwaukee for Carlos Gomez and Mike Fiers. Hader fit in well with his new teammates on the Class AA Biloxi Shuckers in Mississippi.   “I knew a little bit about getting traded, and it helps when you have a good group of guys in the minor leagues,” Hader said. “We had a bunch of great guys at Biloxi. and it made it easier for the transition. That’s the biggest thing: If you’re feeling comfortable and having fun, everything’s going to flow a lot better.” Two pitching coaches — Doug Brocail in the Astros’ system, and Chris Hook in the Brewers’ system — helped Hader refine his slider, moving it away from his palm and “making sure I get the ultimate feel on the fingertips,” Hader said. Though Hader mostly started in the minors, the Brewers decided not to use him to bolster a middling rotation that includes Chase Anderson, Zach Davies, Jhoulys Chacin, Brent Suter and Junior Guerra.  “We spent a lot of time talking about it internally,” Counsell said, adding that he loves how Hader’s arsenal plays up in relief. “It’s something we’ll revisit in the future, for sure, but I think Josh enjoys the role he’s in, enjoys affecting a lot of games.” Hader’s role took on greater importance when the Brewers lost their All-Star closer, Corey Knebel, to a severe hamstring injury on April 5. But he did not simply replace Knebel in the ninth inning, because his job may be even more crucial. “When Andrew Miller came out in the playoffs, I think he really showed these middle innings are just as important as the back and the front,” Hader said, referring to Miller’s star turn for Cleveland in 2016. “It’s definitely becoming much bigger than it used to be.” As Hader thrives, he would clearly merit a more traditional uniform number than 71. He used to wear 17 — the number his favorite Oriole, B.J. Surhoff, wore in Baltimore — but the Brewers have not issued 17 since their longtime second baseman, Jim Gantner, last used it in 1992. “It’s like a retired number that’s not retired, so I just said 17 backward is 71, and I just rolled with it,” Hader said. “I’m not that picky; 71 works perfect for me.” Hitters see plenty of Hader’s 71 — just before he turns and throws them something they cannot handle. The Cincinnati Reds were 3-15 when they fired Manager Bryan Price and the pitching coach Mack Jenkins on Thursday. It wasn’t the earliest firing of a manager (the 1988 Baltimore Orioles dismissed Cal Ripken Sr. after six games, as the 2002 Detroit Tigers did with Phil Garner), but it was close. On a conference call with Cincinnati reporters, the Reds’ general manager, Dick Williams, insisted it was not a rash decision. “We’ve been thinking about the 2018 season since the 2017 season ended, and we had all off-season together to prepare,” Williams said, adding later, “We’ve had a lot of chances to observe this group together and to see them get off to the kind of start that we had hoped, and it’s not there.” The Reds finished 68-94 last season for the second year in a row, and their 5.17 earned run average was the highest in the National League. Nobody pitched even 125 innings for the Reds last season, and yet they added no starting pitchers through trades or free agency. Their collection of raw and unproven arms has flopped so far, again. In the age of deliberate, protracted rebuilding — some call it tanking — starts like this are bound to happen. Price, a former pitching coach, had more than four years to leave a mark as manager and finished 279-387. But for the Reds to base a change on 18 games of evidence, when they did so little to help Price’s roster, it makes one wonder what they could have possibly expected. “We’re very focused on creating a sense of urgency for these guys to perform now,” Williams said. Williams added that the front office also shared in the blame, and said he did not want Price or Jenkins to be a scapegoat. Jim Riggleman took over as the interim manager, with Danny Darwin essentially replacing Jenkins. The Reds, who employ the former Boston manager John Farrell as a scout, said they had no timetable on naming Price’s full-time successor. Mike Myers made 883 appearances over 13 years as a major league pitcher. It sounds like a lot, but Myers threw sidearm and averaged just 2.7 hitters per outing. Before he could exert much energy on the mound, his workday was usually over. “I could pitch seven, 10, 14 days in a row,” Myers said. “I never got sore, pitching-wise.” His latest athletic pursuit required just a bit more stamina. Myers ran the Boston Marathon on Monday, slogging through the 26.2 miles in 40-degree weather with driving rain and 35 mile-an-hour headwinds. It was the first marathon for Myers, who helped the Red Sox win the 2004 World Series. He finished in 5 hours 7 minutes. “I had two goals entering the race, one of which was to run the entire thing,” said Myers, who now works for the Players Association. “I fell about a mile and a quarter short of that because I walked various points knowing that if I tried to push it, I was going to hurt myself real bad and possibly not make it to the end. And the other goal was to get on the plane the next day without needing the assistance of a wheelchair — and I was able to do that with no problem.” Myers, 48, raised more than $12,000 for the Angel Fund for A.L.S. Research, in honor of Sharon Timlin, the mother of his former Red Sox teammate Mike Timlin, who is now Myers’s next-door neighbor in Colorado. Sharon Timlin died of A.L.S. in 2003. Mike Timlin’s wife, Dawn, is one of at least three wives of the 2004 Red Sox who have run the Boston Marathon, including Curt Schilling’s wife, Shonda, and Trot Nixon’s wife, Kathryn. It is possible that another former player besides Myers has run the race, but T.K. Skenderian, the communications director for the Boston Athletic Association, said there were none in his records. Myers started training late last summer and changed his diet in January, cutting out alcohol and almost all carbohydrates. He said he had lost 28 pounds this year, which helped during the race. So did months of running in Colorado. “Where I live, I can’t go more than a mile without hitting some type of major hill, whether it’s a steep incline or a steep decline,” Myers said. “So that helped out on some of the hills. It helped out on Heartbreak Hill, and there’s a few other ones where I was like: ‘Oh, this is just like a normal bump in the road for Colorado. This shouldn’t even be considered a hill.’ But when you’re out there in Mile 16 or 18 and you see a little hill, it’s not like they’re small anymore.” Myers’s final extended run before the race was an eight-miler through snow and sleet in the Kansas City area, where his daughter was playing in a softball tournament. That helped him learn some tricks that helped in Boston: avoiding puddles, sidestepping slick spots, keeping an eye out for slippery manhole covers and so on.  Two days later — just before a two-hour massage — Myers said his body actually felt pretty good. But he was not quite ready to sign up for another marathon. “It was fun enough to where I would definitely not say I’ll never do it again,” Myers said. “But it’s not something where I’m like, ‘God, I can’t wait for my next Boston Marathon!’ ” You might have noticed that pitchers throw really hard these days, and hitters strike out more than ever. So what do we make of Steven Brault, a left-handed pitcher for the Pittsburgh Pirates who never strikes out? And we do mean never. Brault, who reached the majors in 2016, has made 31 career plate appearances that had one thing in common: He put the ball in play every time. The last pitcher to start his career with at least 31 plate appearances before striking out was Fred Hutchinson of the Detroit Tigers — in 1939 and 1940. Hutchinson came to bat 66 times before his first strikeout.  “I still want to be a hitter, I think,” said Brault, who grew up near San Diego rooting for the Hall of Famer Tony Gwynn, the consummate contact hitter of the Padres. “Hitting is just super fun. It’s one of those things that’s so frustrating, but when you do succeed, super satisfying. I’ve always loved hitting.” Brault hit .397 in 2013 for Division II Regis University in Denver, striking out only 10 times in 184 at-bats but showing even more promise on the mound. He hit just one home run in college and has not gone deep in the majors. Managing expectations might be his secret. Brault is a .233 hitter in the majors: 7 for 30, with six singles and a double. “Other hitters are trying to hit bombs and doubles and stuff,” Brault said, “and my focus is trying to just put the bat on the ball and make sure I’m not a guaranteed out, I guess.” Brault is part of a young rotation that has helped make the Pirates surprise contenders, even after trading Gerrit Cole, a former 19-game winner. Cole hit three homers in six seasons with the Pirates, but none of the current Pirates starters has hit even one. “We talk about it all the time, the young pitchers here: Who’s going to hit the first home run out of all of us?” Brault said. “We’re kind of excited, looking forward to it, but for me, I like getting on the basepaths any way I can. Getting some hits is always fun. I’m just not a launch-angle guy, so I don’t have any launch angle. I need to work on that.” When not hitting or pitching, Brault and a fellow Pirates starter, Trevor Williams, host a podcast called “IMHO” (“In My Humble Opinion”), with teammates as guest stars. After a debut episode in December ranking the “Star Wars” movies, they have discussed zoo animals with Jameson Taillon, cartoons with Adam Frazier, pizza toppings with Joe Musgrove, romantic comedies with Cole Tucker and more. Think of the old “Wayne’s World” skits on “Saturday Night Live” — with the freewheeling banter of Wayne, Garth and friends — and you get the idea. “We decided we could have some fun with it and show people that we are real human beings, we are goofy guys, we like to have fun — and we do,” Brault said. “Every time we record, we’re laughing our butts off the entire time.” They have not recorded an episode about hitting, but Brault would most likely dominate the conversation: Williams is 3 for 49 in his career, with 21 strikeouts. 