 ORLANDO, Fla. — When the national council meeting of the United States Soccer Federation is gaveled to a close here on Saturday, U.S. Soccer will have a new president for the first time in a dozen years. That person will have a lot of work to do. The defining feature of the eight-person race to replace Sunil Gulati, U.S. Soccer’s president since 2006, has been acrimony. Candidates have criticized each other’s platforms in surprisingly personal terms and accused rivals of conflicts of interest. Online, supporters have seemed to make things worse, lobbing (often unsubstantiated) accusations of corruption, payoffs, bullying and worse. The mere size of the field forced lagging contenders to make ever more grandiose promises, some of them dubious economically or questionable legally. Even American soccer legends like Landon Donovan and Mia Hamm — who aren’t running and have no U.S. Soccer leadership position — were pulled into the fray; since December, each has deemed it necessary to publicly deny anonymous accusations that they were secretly working to swing the election. But as the candidates’ rhetoric and accusations split U.S. Soccer and fans into increasingly angry opposing camps, it creates a thorny problem: Saturday’s winner, whoever it is, will have to put the country’s feuding soccer family back together. “In a campaign, things are said and done, and if wounds aren’t healed it will make it hard going forward,” said Alan I. Rothenberg, the president of U.S. Soccer from 1990 to 1998. His own election was a contentious one, as he unseated the sitting president, Werner Fricker, after FIFA officials encouraged Rothenberg to run. Whoever wins will face an immediate backlog of work, as the unruly election has taken up much of the federation’s time and energy. “The challenge is exacerbated because of this open candidacy. Basically, you will have had three months of nothing — nobody has been doing anything,” Rothenberg said. “Which is understandable. But it means that person is going to have their hands full.” Complicating the work of getting things done is U.S. Soccer’s unusual structure. The federation presidency is an unpaid position with a four-year term, but it is hardly akin to running a community soccer club. The president oversees an organization with over $130 million in the bank, $125 million in annual revenue, more than 160 full-time staff members and 4.4 million registered players. The day-to-day operations and much of the business are managed by a paid chief executive, Dan Flynn, but the president still must navigate the competing interests of an entrenched web of state associations, adult and youth programs, coaches, referees and current and former players. The biggest priority for the new president is ensuring the joint American-Canadian-Mexican bid to host the 2026 World Cup is up to snuff. That bid is due at FIFA, world soccer’s governing body, in the middle of March, after which the volunteer president must crisscross the globe to lobby for support ahead of the June vote to award the hosting rights. The winner of Saturday’s vote also will oversee the process of hiring a new coach for the men’s national team — a position that has been vacant since Bruce Arena resigned in October after the team failed to qualify for the World Cup — and also the creation of technical director positions for both the men’s and women’s national team programs. And then there are the lawsuits. U.S. Soccer faces at least five expensive legal challenges at the moment, including at least two lawsuits filed by the backers of one candidate, Eric Wynalda; another challenging its authority to oversee the sport being heard at the Court of Arbitration for Sport; and a separate complaint with the United States Olympic Committee being pressed by another candidate, Hope Solo. An unresolved claim of wage discrimination filed by members of the women’s national team with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission looms in the background, too. Even if the new president has all the right solutions, that does not guarantee they will be able to implement them. The problem, one past president said, is that the new president has little power to resolve any of the biggest issues, or press any of the significant structural changes they are proposing, all by themselves. “They can certainly advocate for things and try to get the board to get into a particular direction, but they cannot go and decree something,” said Robert Contiguglia, the U.S. Soccer president from 1998 to 2006 and a member of the board since 1990. “It’s not going to happen.” Each president has approached the job differently, making it folly to base expectations for the next president on Gulati’s tenure. Besides, Rothenberg said, while the job might not have much explicit power, it more than makes up for that in soft power. “The power to get along with people and work together is not necessarily written into the organic documents,” he said. “That comes from the ability of the leader to accomplish it.” Rothenberg argues, as do a number of the candidates, that it should be a paid position. Contiguglia, a Colorado physician, vociferously disagrees. While he said he talked to Flynn every day as president, he also ran his medical practice full time. He believes the job can be accomplished with an hour of work a day, and travel on the weekends. “Most of your work is on the phone, supporting the C.E.O. and letting him do his job, and also working from a strategic business plan,” Contiguglia said. If the bylaws were somehow changed to pay the president, Contiguglia said, he would sue the organization for mismanagement. “It is illegal not to have it that way from my point of view,” he said. The last thing U.S. Soccer needs, though, is another lawsuit, and there is little motivation on the board to make the presidency a paid position, anyway. That means its new volunteer president will have to learn the job while bringing a billion-dollar tournament to the United States, setting the national teams on a better course, and improving a youth system nearly everybody agrees has failings. And he or she will have to do all of it with a significant portion of the electorate, and U.S. Soccer fans, enraged by the outcome of the vote. But the past presidents agreed on one thing: it could be worse. When Rothenberg won the presidency in 1990, “I inherited a federation that had basically no money, working out of an old converted closet at the Air Force Academy,” he said. At the first general meeting Contiguglia attended in the early 1980s, “the business meeting was held in the hall, and at each table there were eight people with beer cans piled up to the ceiling, and everyone was drunk.”