 It has been 21 years since the N.B.A. punished a player for refusing to stand for the national anthem. And that player, Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf, paid a much greater price than the nearly $32,000 he lost for a one-game suspension. A flashy 6-foot-1 guard and the Denver Nuggets’ leading scorer for the 1995-96 season, Abdul-Rauf refused to stand because of personal and religious beliefs. He negotiated a fast truce with the league, acquiescing to its rule requiring players to stand for the anthem in an acceptable posture — while also cupping his hands and bowing his head in adherence to his Muslim faith. He was also traded soon after to the Sacramento Kings, and by 1998, at 29, he was out of the league. He became, in essence, a cautionary tale as Colin Kaepernick pursues a case against the N.F.L. accusing it of colluding to deny him a job over his kneeling for the anthem last season. Abdul-Rauf did not get much support from his peers. “If you ask most players from that era, they’d say they regretted not supporting him more than they did,” Buck Williams, who in 1996 was president of the National Basketball Players Association, said in a recent telephone interview. “He was kind of left out on an island.” That was then, a period largely defined by the soaring popularity of the famously apolitical Michael Jordan. This is now, an era of exploding social media leverage in which N.B.A. player and coaching personalities — more so than their N.F.L. counterparts — have established themselves as recognizable commentators. So why haven’t N.B.A. players — at least thus far in this young season — joined those among the N.F.L.’s rank and file who have lined up behind the now-unemployed Kaepernick in taking a knee as a means of protest? It is not because they fear the wrath of President Trump, or even the punitive arm of the N.B.A.’s league office, according to Michele Roberts, the players union’s executive director. They haven’t protested collectively, she said, because they can better do so individually. “They don’t need to take a knee when they can communicate their messages on their own,” Roberts said in a telephone interview. “LeBron James, all he has to do is tweet and everybody knows exactly how he feels.” Or have “Equality” embroidered on the back of his sneakers, as James did before the Cleveland Cavaliers’ season opener several weeks ago. It is no secret that football, with its often anonymous foot soldiers in the trenches (many without fully guaranteed contracts), is a sport more designed for group expression. The N.B.A., said the former commissioner David Stern, has long been a laboratory focused on the behavior of individuals. Asked why the league felt the need to impose a stand-for-the-anthem rule, in effect at least since the early 1980s, Stern said, “It was our minimal standard — when you come out on the court, please stand at attention — because the N.B.A. has always been something of a social cause, these great black athletes trying to work their way in what back in the day could be a hostile white environment.” He mentioned outsize players and personalities like Bill Russell, Wilt Chamberlain and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, with far greater visibility and impact in their comparatively intimate workplace. In the N.B.A., superficial issues like hairstyles and tattoos have for decades been part of the discussion, and judgment. Kaepernick basically hid his Afro under a helmet, but as far back as the 1970s, Julius Erving’s could excite or aggravate. By March 1996, when Abdul-Rauf was suspended, Jordan was arguably the world’s most admired athlete and the N.B.A. was enjoying exponential domestic and global growth. Still, as Williams said, “Race was the elephant in the room, and though I think David tried his best to deal with it, it was something that terrified the N.B.A.” Although Stern said he didn’t believe Abdul-Rauf had been shunned by the league for his stance, and pointed out that he did return briefly with the Vancouver Grizzlies in 2000, Abdul-Rauf apparently believes otherwise. Playing in the inaugural season of the Big3 league this year, his hair and beard speckled with gray, Abdul-Rauf, 48, continued to bow his head, close his eyes and pray during the playing of the anthem, which he maintains symbolizes oppression. In 2016, he told ESPN that he was at peace for keeping with his principles, despite career sacrifices. It would be naïve to think that the elephant of race has left the room, but 21st-century N.B.A. players are riding and even steering it, Roberts said, and without much direction from her. When James, Dwyane Wade, Carmelo Anthony and Chris Paul used measured tones at the 2016 ESPY Awards to decry violence against African-Americans as well as against the police, Roberts said she was among the last people to hear it was going to happen. “I haven’t had a single player ask me, ‘What should we do?’” she said. “And I’m not intimidated or fearful of how they will be judged because I know whatever they do, they will do respectfully and with compassion.” Too sweeping a generalization, perhaps. In such a volatile or hostile environment, restraint or respect is not always possible. Stephen Curry of the Golden State Warriors tangled on Twitter with the president over the prospect of his team’s visit to the White House, and James weighed in on the exchange rather inelegantly. Tough rhetoric has been heard from coaches, too, such as Steve Kerr of the Warriors and especially Gregg Popovich of the San Antonio Spurs. But the residual effect, from the players’ perspective, could be that they recognize they are no longer inhabiting the island that Williams said Abdul-Rauf was on 21 years ago. Indeed, N.B.A. players share vivid memories of how swiftly and strongly Adam Silver, the current commissioner, dealt with the ramblings of Donald Sterling, the former Los Angeles Clippers’ owner, in 2014. This September, Silver and Roberts signed a letter in support of the players’ social activism. “Adam was on the money with Sterling, and he’s been on the money today,” Roberts said. “But I don’t think the players are behaving this way because the league supports them. They’re acting based on how they feel, though they do appreciate the way the league supports them.” And if somebody kneels this season during the anthem? Silver has said he expects players to stand but declined to offer what he might do if they do not. Roberts was also mum, though not completely. “I’m not going to comment on what hasn’t happened yet,” she said. “Still, I can’t imagine telling players that we support you but if you express yourself on an issue you feel strongly about, we’re going to punish you.” That hypothetical, while not the elephant, is in the room.