 Loyola-Chicago, the 11th seed that has improbably made the Final Four, is the sensation of the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament. But it is not the first time the team has made its mark in the event. In 1963, an integrated Loyola team met an all-white team from Mississippi State as civil rights battles raged across the country. It has become known as the Game of Change, for opening the way for more integrated squads. And it almost did not happen. The country, and the South in particular, was torn by civil rights protests, and education was at their center. In the fall of 1962, James H. Meredith, armed with a court order and surrounded by hundreds of federal marshals, had become the first black student to enroll at the University of Mississippi, setting off deadly riots by angry whites. By 1963, other colleges across the South were beginning to admit their first slow trickle of black students, including Clemson, Tulane and Southwest Texas State (Vice President Lyndon Johnson’s alma mater), and the transitions were more peaceful. But Southern basketball teams remained strictly segregated. And many coaches at integrated teams, even in the North, had a gentleman’s agreement not to play more than two black players at time. Loyola was one of a few that ignored the practice, starting four black players. Loyola’s integrated team was the Midwest’s best, in the top 5 nationally all season and 19-2 heading into the tournament. Point guard Jerry Harkness was the star, an All-American who went on to play for the Knicks. Les Hunter and Vic Rouse dominated the boards. Mississippi State, led by Leland Mitchell, was also a top 10 team. But while Loyola played a geographically diverse schedule, Mississippi State stayed in the South, playing only teams without black players. Indeed, Mississippi State had won the two previous Southeastern Conference titles, but it had turned down invitations to the N.C.A.A. tournament because of the probability of facing a team with black players. By the end of the 1962-63 regular season, things were changing. Mississippi State’s players and coaches wanted no more of the “unwritten law” and planned to prove themselves in the N.C.A.A. tournament. The university president, D.W. Colvard, announced that this time the team was in. Loyola won its preliminary game, 111-42, over Tennessee Tech, still the biggest margin ever in a tournament game. That set up the match against Mississippi State in the round of 16 in East Lansing, Mich. Yet there were still plenty of people who did not want the game played. One of them was Mississippi’s governor, Ross R. Barnett. In 1960, he had said of integrated sports: “If there were a half-dozen Negroes on the team, where are they going to eat? Are they going to want to go to the dance later and want to dance with our girls?” A special meeting of the state college board was called. It voted, 8-3, to let the team play. Segregationists turned to the courts and won an injunction, but it was overturned by a state Supreme Court judge a day before the game. But the team was still concerned about further legal action, to the point that it turned to subterfuge. The second string was sent to the Starkville airport first, as decoys, to draw out any lawyers wielding further injunctions. Had one arrived, the first team, hiding in their dormitory, would have been spirited away by some other method. But when the coast was determined to be clear, the team flew to Michigan together. Coach Babe McCarthy had been sent out of state, to Nashville, and joined the team when its plane stopped there. “It was cloak-and-dagger stuff,” said Mitchell, who died in 2013. “It was almost like cops and robbers.” After the intrigue that preceded it, the game was free of trouble. There were friendly handshakes before and after. Loyola got 20 points on 7-of-11 shooting by its star, Harkness, and 19 rebounds from Rouse to win by 61-51. “There wasn’t one incident,” Mitchell said, “and not because we weren’t trying or trying to be nice.” Loyola kept it up, beating Illinois and then Duke at the Final Four in Louisville. In the championship game, its opponent was formidable: the two-time defending champion, Cincinnati, which had been No. 1 all year. Loyola, using only five players the whole game, rallied to tie the score on a last-second shot by Harkness. Rouse scored off a missed shot to win it in overtime, 60-58. In 1965, Mississippi State admitted its first black student, Richard Holmes. College basketball continued to integrate, although slowly in some places. In 1966, a Texas Western team with five black starters beat an all-white Kentucky team in the N.C.A.A. final, a game immortalized in the 2006 film “Glory Road.” The SEC did not get its first black basketball player until 1967. “The recruiting of Negro athletes isn’t as good as recruiting Negro brains would be,” said Leslie W. Dunbar of the Southern Regional Council in 1963, “but it may be a start.” Loyola’s championship team was inducted in the College Basketball Hall of Fame in 2013, the only team so honored. It also remains the only team from Illinois to win the N.C.A.A. tournament. Loyola returned to the tournament in three of the next five years, but times have been tough since. An appearance in 1985 was followed by a 33-year drought that ended this season with the Final Four surprise. Mississippi State did not return to the N.C.A.A. tournament until 1991, and made a run to the Final Four in 1996. It has not been back in the field since 2009, but made this year’s NIT semifinal. As in 1963, Loyola continues to have a mix of white and black players. The once segregated Mississippi State had more than a dozen black players on its roster.