 The N.F.L.’s marketing strategy is built on its quarterbacks. Commercials featuring Peyton Manning, Aaron Rodgers and Drew Brees seem to run in a loop on Sundays, and a quick scan of the stands reveals a strong bias toward the jerseys of Tom Brady or Cam Newton. But a look at the N.F.L. Week 11 starting lineups was startling: Tom Savage. Brett Hundley. Matt Moore. Nathan Peterman. Nathan Peterman? Or how about those quarterbacks you never expected to see as starters again? Ryan Fitzpatrick. Blaine Gabbert. Case Keenum. Who are these guys, and how could that many leser-known quarterbacks be starting in the N.F.L.? A few of them did O.K. on Sunday. Some did not. Let’s start with one of those. Yes, let’s start with Nathan Peterman. Who is he? A rookie who was a fifth-round draft pick out of Pitt. Why was he playing? An excellent question. Although Tyrod Taylor had played well in leading the Bills to a 5-4 start, Coach Sean McDermott decided to go with young Peterman. The perplexing decision was roundly criticized, especially since it seemed the team’s main problem was its defense, not Taylor. McDermott was never quite explicit about the reasons for his decision. “Every position is evaluated,” he said in announcing the change, “and that’s the direction I decided to go.” How did he do? Oh dear. Peterman threw six complete passes and five interceptions (Taylor had three all year). His adjusted yards per pass figure was minus-2.5. He ranks 47th among 47 starters in the N.F.L. this season, behind Matt Cassel and Scott Tolzien. In the third quarter, Taylor was back on the field. But the defense was poor again, and the Bills lost to the Chargers, 54-24. “I don’t regret my decision,” McDermott said gamely. Who is he? A third-year man who had no starts and only two completed passes in the N.F.L. coming into this season. Why was he playing? He took over for the injured Aaron Rodgers a month ago, and was a shaky 1-3 going into Sunday. How did he do? Not well. He threw three interceptions and was sacked six times. He passed for 239 yards, but it added up to no points as the Packers were shut out by the Ravens, 23-0. Coach Mike McCarthy is sticking with him, though. “Hundley is our starter,” McCarthy said after the game. Who is he? You might remember his two years as the Jaguars’ starter. He has been a backup with the Jags and 49ers the last four years. Why was he playing? With both Carson Palmer and Drew Stanton injured, Gabbert was pressed into service on Sunday for the first time this season. How did he do? Not terribly. He was 22 for 34 with 3 touchdowns, but he also threw 2 interceptions. Arizona lost, 31-21, to this guy: Who is he? Savage is in his fourth year as a Houston backup. Why is he playing? It’s his third week of subbing for the injured rookie Deshaun Watson. Savage was 0-2 going into Sunday after two poor games. How did he do? He got the win, with a 22-for-32 performance, 2 touchdowns and an interception, his best outing of the year. Who is he? A 10-year veteran who had one season as a regular with the Dolphins in 2011, Moore has spent most of his career backing up other quarterbacks. Why was he playing? Miami’s starter, Jay Cutler, went down in the second quarter on Sunday with a rib injury. How did he do? Moore brought the team back from a 13-point deficit to tie the score with three minutes to go. With Cutler dealing with cracked ribs, Moore now may get to start a few games. Who is he? After years as a starter for the Bengals, Bills, Titans, Texans and Jets, but no playoff appearances, the former Harvard player has transitioned into a backup at age 34. Why was he playing? Sunday was Fitzpatrick’s second start replacing the injured Jameis Winston; he won his first game. How did he do? He threw for 275 yards and 2 touchdowns, and the Bucs beat the Dolphins, 30-20. Tampa Bay seems to be in reasonable hands for now, thought it is difficult to expect Fitzpatrick to play in his first playoff game this season, as the Buccaneers are 4-6. Who is he? A journeyman who has played for the Texans and the Rams before coming to Minnesota. Why was he playing? Keenum has been starting while the Vikings wait for the return of Teddy Bridgewater from a long-term knee injury. (Their original starter, Sam Bradford, also is out with knee problems.) Keenum had won five games in a row coming into Sunday, but Bridgewater is just about ready to return, leaving the quarterback situation uncertain. How did he do? Make it six in a row! Keenum was 27 for 38 for 280 yards and didn’t throw an interception in the Vikings’ 24-7 win over the Rams, who had benched Keenum last season. Minnesota is 8-2, and Keenum has surprised just about everyone. Now, what to do with a healthy Bridgewater? “It’s going to be hard to yank him out of there right now,” Coach Mike Zimmer told The Minneapolis Star Tribune of Keenum. “He’s playing good.” All that quarterback mediocrity and all these unexpected quarterbacks of course brings up one name absent: Colin Kaepernick. LeBron James is one of many who have wondered about him, telling ESPN: “I do know Kap is getting a wrong doing. I do know that. Just watching, he’s an N.F.L. player. He’s an N.F.L. player and you see all these other quarterbacks out there and players out there that get all these second and third chances that are nowhere near as talented as him.” In 12 appearances last season, Kaepernick threw four interceptions, one fewer than Peterman managed in a half on Sunday.