 HOUSTON — The list of stellar pitchers that the Houston Astros’ lineup has toppled this postseason is impressive: Chris Sale, Craig Kimbrel, Luis Severino, Aroldis Chapman and Kenley Jansen — all among the best at their craft. And by the second inning of Game 3 of the World Series on Friday night, the Astros had struck again, this time getting the best of another prestigious pitcher — the Los Angeles Dodgers’ Yu Darvish. They shelled him for four runs and forced him to make him an unceremonious exit after getting only five outs. The end result was a 5-3 victory that gave the Astros a lead of two games to one in the Series, with Game 4 scheduled for Saturday night at Minute Maid Park. The Astros are now 7-0 in their ballpark this postseason, and the Dodgers trail for the first time in a 2017 postseason series. The victory displayed the dynamism of the Astros’ offense. After being limited to one run in Game 1, the Astros scored 12 over the next two games. The win also underscored the versatility of pitcher Brad Peacock. Used mainly as a starter this season, Peacock took over for Lance McCullers Jr. in the sixth and fired three and two-thirds hitless innings to complete the game, earning the first save of his career and ensuring that the work of the Astros’ lineup would hold up. “When I was out there, a couple of times I got the chills from them screaming so loud,” Peacock said of the Astros fans. Even though the Astros played a solid all-around game on Friday night, with good defense and competent starting pitching from McCullers, they also created some controversy. After Astros first baseman Yuli Gurriel smashed a home run off Darvish in the second inning, television cameras caught him smiling and using his hands to stretch the edges of his eyes, a racist gesture that referred to Darvish, who is from Japan. Major League Baseball plans to interview Gurriel and consider discipline. After the game, Gurriel apologized. “I did not want to offend anybody,” he said through an interpreter. “I was commenting that I did not have any good luck against Japanese pitchers in the United States.” Darvish called Gurriel’s gesture “disrespectful” and noted that the Astros also have Asian fans. “Including him and I, nobody is perfect,” Darvish said through an interpreter. “Everybody is different. We’re just going to have to learn from it. He made a mistake. We are all human beings.” During the regular season, the Astros possessed a uniquely powerful lineup. They led all teams in most major offensive categories: runs scored, batting average, on-base-plus-slugging percentage. They were also second in the major leagues in home runs — trailing only the Yankees — and they finished last in strikeouts. They were the third team in the last 100 years to lead in slugging percentage and have the fewest strikeouts. In other words: They were a nightmare for opposing pitching staffs. They were not perfect on Friday — they left 12 runners on base and could have turned the game into a blowout with another timely hit or two — but they were certainly tough on Darvish. Entering the game, Darvish had been excellent for the Dodgers in the postseason. Acquired in a midseason trade, he had allowed only one run in 11⅓ playoff innings against the Arizona Diamondbacks and the Chicago Cubs. Against the Astros, however, his pitches seemed flat. He looked uncomfortable on the mound, fidgeting and slowing his pace. After coughing up the home run to Gurriel to start the second inning, Darvish gave up a double to right fielder Josh Reddick and walked designated hitter Evan Gattis. Normally, pitching coaches run out to the mound to talk to a sputtering pitcher. Manager Dave Roberts did it instead, with the entire infield converging on the mound. Roberts left Darvish in the game. The momentary reprieve did not work. Left fielder Marwin Gonzalez smashed a ball off the left-center field wall that looked like a double, but Gattis advanced only to second base. Gonzalez settled for a run-scoring single. Catcher Brian McCann followed with another single that drove in a run. And after center fielder George Springer lined out, third baseman Alex Bregman gave the Astros a 4-0 lead with a sacrifice fly that scored Gonzalez. When Jose Altuve doubled, Roberts had seen enough. He emerged from the dugout, and this time Darvish was coming out to end the shortest start of his career. “I’m not going to lie, I was a little concerned before the game about facing him. Everybody knows how good he is,” Altuve said, adding: “I don’t think he made some bad pitches, he made some good pitches. But the guys could barrel the ball.” Of the 49 pitches he threw, Darvish induced only one swing and miss. For the first time in his career, Darvish did not strike out a batter in a game he started. Meanwhile, McCullers vacillated between strong and shaky. He was helped by the Astros’ defense, which has been sound all series and helped save runs on Friday. In the first inning, Altuve robbed a hit from Corey Seager with a ranging play at second base, and Springer raced to deep center field to catch Justin Turner’s fly ball. When McCullers got himself in trouble by walking three batters to load the bases in the third inning, his defense helped him wriggle out with minimal damage. Gurriel, Correa and McCullers pulled of a slick double play that allowed a run but notched critical outs. Then McCullers got Turner to ground out to end the inning. Springer also made a diving catch in the fifth inning, robbing Taylor of another hit, this time with Joc Pederson on third base. The Dodgers, on the other hand, made mistakes. Dodgers right fielder Yasiel Puig was thrown out at second base when he should have easily had a double in the fourth inning. On the play, Puig poked a ball down the third-base line, and apparently not knowing where the hit went, he ran through first base. Belatedly, as he realized the ball had gotten past Bregman, he took off for second base. Shortstop Carlos Correa threw Puig out. The Astros took a 5-1 lead in the fifth inning when Dodgers reliever Tony Watson threw wildly to first base on an infield chopper, allowing Reddick to score all the way from first. The Dodgers scored twice more against McCullers in the sixth inning, before he yielded to Peacock. The Dodgers would not get another run, and they finished the game knowing that they would now have to win a game in the forbidding Minute Maid Park to keep alive their hopes of a World Series title. “The series is far from over,” Dodgers left fielder Enrique Hernandez said. “We had one bad inning.”