 There was a reason Las Vegas set some remarkably aggressive point spreads this past week, and teams like the Philadelphia Eagles and the New England Patriots predictably romped to big victories Sunday. But the week also featured the Los Angeles Rams recovering from last week’s loss by ending the New Orleans Saints’ long winning streak and the Buffalo Bills picking themselves off the mat to get back into the playoff race. Here is what we learned. ■ The Rams know how to rebound. A week after imploding against Minnesota, Los Angeles showed that it is still a force to be reckoned with by ending the New Orleans Saints’ eight-game winning streak. Jared Goff found room to work against the injury-depleted New Orleans secondary, while the Rams’ defense repeatedly took care of business on third down. It was a big win at home for the Rams, and it kept them on the short list of top teams in the N.F.L. ■ You should remove your jewelry before fighting with Aqib Talib. In the first quarter of a clash between the Broncos and the Raiders, Oakland’s Michael Crabtree blocked Denver’s Talib off the field, down the sideline and through a crowd. The ensuing fight resulted in three ejections. While Crabtree and Talib will most likely incur large fines, Crabtree is also out a necklace. For the second consecutive season, a fight between the two players resulted in Talib’s tearing a gold chain off Crabtree’s neck. ■ It takes a lot to say Julio Jones had a career day. Jones, the star wide receiver for the Atlanta Falcons, had 12 catches for 253 yards in his team’s win over Tampa Bay, but in a testament to his spectacular career, neither mark was a career high. It was his third career game with more than 250 receiving yards, but his two touchdowns were probably more significant, as he came into the game with just one touchdown for the season. Jones’s touchdowns came from 51 and 25 yards, with the longer one coming on a throw from his fellow wide receiver Mohamed Sanu. ■ Other teams are playing checkers, but the Bills are playing chess. Last week Buffalo occasioned a great deal of head-scratching when it seemed to sabotage its playoff hopes by sending out an unprepared rookie quarterback who turned the ball over with great abandon on the way to a lopsided loss. But a week later, Tyrod Taylor was back at quarterback, the Bills beat the Chiefs, and they are back in line for a playoff spot, just as they planned all along. Maybe. ■ In a lost season, the Jets have found a great wide receiver. Things fell apart for the Jets in the second half, with penalties and sloppy plays giving away a winnable game to Carolina. But the Jets got yet another big game from 24-year-old Robby Anderson, a second-year wide receiver, who had six catches for 146 yards and two touchdowns. It was the fifth consecutive game in which he scored a touchdown, giving him seven for the year. The Pittsburgh Steelers had the ball, 17 seconds and about 30 yards to go to avoid overtime against relentlessly resilient Green Bay. Oh, and the Steelers had Antonio Brown. The Packers did not. And 17 seconds, 30ish yards provided entirely by Pittsburgh’s do-everything wide receiver and one 53-yard field goal from Chris Boswell later, the Steelers were dancing on the logo at midfield following a 31-28 escape on Sunday night. Pittsburgh (9-2) won its sixth straight behind Brown, who finished with 10 receptions for 169 yards and two touchdowns. Yet the biggest grab was a 23-yard toe-tap along the sideline on the first snap of his team’s last-gasp drive that put the Steelers near the fringe of Boswell’s range. At first, it looked as if Brown was out of bounds. Two officials conferred for more than 15 seconds before ruling Brown somehow managed to get both feet down. The call stood on replay. A more conventional 14-yard reception on the next snap pushed the Steelers closer. Boswell’s career-long blast slipped inside the left upright to keep Pittsburgh tied with New England atop the A.F.C. and keep Brown’s teammates searching for superlatives. “It’s one thing to do it in practice on a Thursday,” guard David Decastro said. “To do it in that situation to get into field goal range? I just, I guess how can you not be surprised?” Brown wasn’t. “I knew right away I had it,” Brown said. “I got my hand on the ball. I knew it was a catch.” One the Steelers needed to avoid perhaps another mystifying loss. Even though the Packers were missing quarterback Aaron Rodgers, running back Ty Montgomery and linebacker Clay Matthews, they pushed Pittsburgh to the limit. Brett Hundley completed 17 of 26 for 245 yards and three touchdowns for the Packers (5-6) in his best start since taking over when Rodgers went on injured reserve with a broken collarbone last month. Jamaal William ran for 66 yards, including a 4-yard leap into the end zone with 2:02 that tied it at 28. “I just want to give this team an opportunity to win,” Hundley said. “And I feel like we were really close.” Jared Goff would have to lead a top offense for another decade or more before deserving any quarterback comparisons with Drew Brees, but in a clash of high-powered offenses, Goff’s Los Angeles Rams held off a late charge from Brees’s New Orleans Saints, and won 26-20, ending the Saints’ eight-game winning streak. With the win, Los Angeles improved to 8-3, guaranteeing the team a record of .500 or above for the first time since 2006. The Rams have not had a winning record since 2003. “I think every win provides an opportunity to gain some confidence,” Coach Sean McVay said about the win at his postgame news conference. “It sounds monotonous but the biggest thing is we got to 8-3.” Read our game report here. Another strong performance by Carson Wentz. Another dominant effort by the defense. Another lopsided win for the Philadelphia Eagles. Wentz threw three touchdown passes as the N.F.L.-leading Eagles beat the visiting Chicago Bears, 31-3, for their ninth straight win. The Eagles (10-1) reduced their magic number to clinch the N.F.C. East to 1 with their fourth consecutive win by at least 23 points and third in a row by exactly 28. Philadelphia will secure its first division title since 2013 if the Cowboys (5-6) lose to or tie Washington on Thursday night. “We’re playing with a lot of momentum, a lot of energy, a lot of swagger,” Wentz said. Wentz had 227 yards passing, LeGarrette Blount ran for 97 yards, and Zach Ertz caught 10 passes for 103 yards and a touchdown. The defense shut down the rookie quarterback Mitchell Trubisky and the inept Bears (3-8), holding them to zero first downs in the first half and 140 total yards in the game. “That’s the best defense I’ve ever played,” Chicago offensive lineman Kyle Long said. The Bears won the turnover battle by three to two, but they couldn’t do anything with excellent field position. They started consecutive drives at midfield and Philadelphia’s 42, but Cairo Santos missed a 54-yard field goal. “We didn’t play well enough to compete,” Bears Coach John Fox said. “We needed to play really, really well in all three phases to beat that team.” The Patriots made their share of mistakes and had to contend with injuries on Sunday. But Tom Brady threw four touchdown passes, two to Rob Gronkowski, as New England pushed through to a 35-17 victory over the sliding Miami Dolphins. New England (9-2), which leads the A.F.C. East by three games, posted its seventh consecutive victory and its third straight win over Miami. The Dolphins (4-7) have lost five straight, their longest slide since 2011. “We know our biggest games are ahead of us,” Brady said. “All the good teams are going to start playing really well. We’ve got to be one of those teams.” Brady threw four or more touchdown passes for the 28th time, third among N.F.L. quarterbacks. His 26 touchdown passes are the most in a season for anyone older than 40. The Dolphins played without quarterback Jay Cutler, who practiced Friday but remained in the concussion protocol. Matt Moore, his backup, struggled to find a rhythm in his second start of the season. He completed 23 of 34 passes for 215 yards and a touchdown, but also had two interceptions. He was sacked seven times. Tyrod Taylor did exactly what he spent the first half of the season doing, back when the Buffalo Bills were off to a hot start and his job was never in question. He threw for 183 yards and a touchdown. He kept plays alive with his feet. He made sure to avoid interceptions. Taylor’s steady performance in Kansas City dovetailed nicely with a stellar game by the Buffalo defense, capped off by Tre’Davious White’s interception with about a minute remaining that clinched a much-needed 16-10 victory over Alex Smith and the Chiefs. “I just thought over all today, we played good team offense,” Bills Coach Sean McDermott said. “We ran the ball well at times. Tyrod used his feet well at times. We had some critical third-down conversions on drives, so there were some good things going on there. It wasn’t just one guy.” Zay Jones had the touchdown reception and Stephen Hauschka kicked three field goals for the Bills (6-5), whose defense held Kansas City (6-5) to 236 yards of total offense. Julio Jones is getting hot, and so are the Atlanta Falcons. Suddenly, things are looking up for the defending N.F.C. champions. Jones turned in one of the best games of his career, hauling in 12 passes for 253 yards and two touchdowns, and the host Falcons won their third in a row with a 34-20 victory over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. “The goal is to get better as you’re playing,” Coach Dan Quinn said. “We’re going to keep working like crazy to do that.” It would be hard for Jones to get much better. After managing only one touchdown catch through the first 10 games, he doubled that total in the first half. Jones hauled in a 51-yard scoring pass from his fellow receiver Mohamed Sanu and went 25 yards for a touchdown on a throw from Matt Ryan, finishing the play with a soaring dive for the pylon, somehow managing to stay in bounds before sticking out the ball with his right hand. “I’m feeling better,” said Jones, who said he had been bothered by an ankle injury two weeks ago. “But right now, I’m good.” Running backs DeMarco Murray and Derrick Henry took it personally when Tennessee started slowly. They made sure they finished with a flurry. Henry delivered the body blows with five strong runs midway through the fourth quarter, and Murray finally punched in from 1 yard with 5 minutes 59 seconds left, giving the Titans a 20-16 win and their first victory in 10 tries at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis. “Derrick came in and made some good runs,” quarterback Marcus Mariota said. “When you have a front like we do and you can lean on those guys, it’s huge. Their abilities and the way they can dominate the line of scrimmage is huge.” This was far from a dominant performance, though. The Titans (7-4) finished with 276 total yards, and the first half was a debacle. Mariota was picked off twice, the league’s No. 12 rushing offense produced 9 yards on 11 carries, and all Tennessee could muster was two field goals. The rookie Joe Mixon ran for a career-high 114 yards in the Cincinnati Bengals’ best offensive showing since the last time they faced Cleveland, a 30-16 victory that sent the visiting Browns into December still winless for the second year in a row. The Bengals (5-6) won a second straight game for only the second time this season. They hadn’t scored so many points since they won by 31-7 at Cleveland (0-11) on Oct. 1. Mixon also had an 11-yard touchdown that put it away in the fourth quarter. The Bengals came into the game with the worst rush offense in the N.F.L., having reached 100 yards only once before Sunday. Derek Carr threw two touchdown passes after losing starting receiver Michael Crabtree to an ejection for his role in a brawl, and the host Oakland Raiders spoiled Paxton Lynch’s first start of the season with a 21-14 victory over the Denver Broncos. The story coming into the game was about the upheaval for the two teams after Denver (3-8) fired the offensive coordinator Mike McCoy and made another quarterback change, and Oakland (5-6) fired the defensive coordinator Ken Norton Jr. But the fight between Crabtree and cornerback Aqib Talib ended up overshadowing the recent disarray, even as the Raiders recorded their long-awaited first interception of the season in their first game under the defensive play-caller John Pagano and the Broncos lost a seventh straight game for the first time in 50 years. The fight was a continuation of a dispute that started last season when Talib ripped Crabtree’s chain off during the season finale. Crabtree missed the first game between the teams this year but wasted little time seeking revenge. On the second play of Oakland’s second drive, Crabtree aggressively blocked Talib on a running play and drove him to the ground on the Broncos’ sideline. Talib ripped Crabtree’s chain off his neck while they were tangled up, and a brawl ensued. Several Broncos players surrounded Crabtree as he tussled with Talib before his Raiders teammates could come to his assistance. Guard Gabe Jackson pushed an official while trying to join in and was ejected, along with Crabtree and Talib. Russell Wilson threw for two touchdowns to give him 150 career passing touchdowns and ran for a short score, and the visiting Seattle Seahawks overcame a sloppy start to beat the San Francisco 49ers, 24-13. Wilson connected on a 17-yard touchdown pass to Nick Vannett in the third quarter, and a 1-yarder early in the fourth to Jimmy Graham, whose 16 scoring receptions passed Jerramy Stevens for most among Seattle tight ends. Phil Dawson kicked a career-long 57-yard field goal with one second to play to give the host Arizona Cardinals a 27-24 victory over Jacksonville, ending the Jaguars’ four-game winning streak and dropping them into a tie with Tennessee for the A.F.C. South lead. Dawson, a 42-year-old kicker who had uncharacteristically missed six field goals this season, also was good from 34 and 42 yards as the Cardinals (5-6) beat a team with a winning record for the first time this season. Jacksonville (7-4) trailed most of the game. It was a bit of redemption for Arizona quarterback Blaine Gabbert, drafted in the first round by Jacksonville in 2011 but traded away for a sixth-round pick after a disappointing stay. Gabbert was 22 of 38 for 241 yards and two touchdowns with one interception. His back-to-back sideline completions set up Dawson’s winner.