 A star University of Minnesota basketball player announced Thursday that he would not appeal a university ruling expelling him for sexual assault, effectively ending his college career. The university’s Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action had found Reggie Lynch, 23, a senior, responsible for violating the university code over two incidents. In one case, the sentence was suspension; in the second, expulsion. Lynch played with the Gophers during investigations into the incidents, which dated back more than a year, but he was suspended from play last month when the first decision was made public. At a news conference on Thursday, Lynch insisted upon his innocence and blamed a national atmosphere that is unfair to those accused of sexual misdeeds for his downfall. In recent months, accusations of sexual misconduct by powerful men have stirred new interest in combating such behavior. “In today’s climate, people will automatically assume that you are guilty if any accusations have been made,” Lynch said. “I feel scared that in today’s climate, this is the world we live in today. I am angry that there is no real way to defend myself.” A university spokesman confirmed Lynch was no longer an active student. Lynch was previously suspended from the team over the summer of 2016, after he was arrested on suspicion of sexually assaulting a third woman. In that case, prosecutors did not charge him and a university investigation cleared him of responsibility. A center, Lynch was a standout for the Gophers last season, his junior year, winning the Big Ten’s defensive player of the year honors as Minnesota went 24-10 and made the N.C.A.A. tournament for the first time under Coach Richard Pitino. This season, the Gophers are 14-14. Lynch had not played since Jan. 3. Lynch’s mother, Marlene, who appeared alongside her son and his lawyer on Thursday, specifically blamed “the current political climate at the U” for what she characterized as an injustice done to her son. In late 2016, Minnesota football players threatened to boycott a bowl game to protest the suspensions of several teammates for their alleged involvement in a sexual assault. That brought national attention to the university, prompting the president, Eric W. Kaler, to vow a renewed initiative to combat sexual assault.