 LONDON — Financial corruption investigators in France are examining the role played by the world governing body for motor sports in the $4.4 billion sale of the Formula One auto-racing series, according to two people familiar with the inquiry. Investigators want to know if the Federation Internationale de l’Automobile, which is based in Paris and commonly referred to as the F.I.A., had a conflict of interest when it agreed to clear the sale of Formula One to Liberty Media, the cable conglomerate controlled by the American billionaire John C. Malone. Accounting for debt, Liberty’s takeover totaled more than $8 billion, making it one of the biggest transactions in sports. “We are entirely confident that any investigation would find that the F.I.A. has acted appropriately at all times, and we stand ready and willing to cooperate with any enquiries should any investigation be commenced or clarification sought by the appropriate authorities,” the federation said in a statement. Prosecutors from the Parquet National Financier, who have opened multiple investigations into possible corruption in sports, are looking into the case after the Serious Fraud Office in Britain started its own preliminary inquiry into the sale, according to people familiar with the case. They requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly about the inquiry. Investigators’ concerns center on a deal known as the Concorde Agreement that the federation signed in 2013 in its role as the overseer of Formula One. The accord between racing teams and the owner of the series at the time allowed the federation to benefit from an increase in annual payments for its role. The federation also received a one-time $5 million payment and was allowed to buy a 1 percent share in Formula One for about 100 times less than its true value; it could not sell its share until the series’ majority owner, CVC Capital Partners, sold out. That 1 percent stake ended up being worth about $80 million to the federation, creating the risk of a conflict given it had the final say on clearing any potential sale, prosecutors believe. In Britain, the Serious Fraud Office has for months been reviewing the sale. Its director, David Green, wrote to a member of Parliament who referred the matter to the financial crimes investigator that the “S.F.O.’s Intelligence Unit is following this issue very closely and reviewing materials pursuant to allegations of bribery and corruption.” The 2013 accord was agreed between CVC’s chairman, Donald Mackenzie, and the federation president, Jean Todt, a Frenchman who is standing unopposed for re-election later this year. CVC declined to comment. “This is what they wanted in order for them to go along with it,” Bernie Ecclestone, Formula One’s former longtime chief executive, said in a phone interview. “A lot of things happen in business that if you look at it you can’t understand why it is allowed to happen. Somebody said to me there’s a problem. I think in the end people were part of it in France and they’ll have a look at these things if they think it’s wrong.” Formula One generates nearly $2 billion in annual revenue and is a central pillar of Liberty’s portfolio, which also includes baseball’s Atlanta Braves and the satellite radio company Sirius XM. A Liberty spokeswoman did not respond to a request for comment. The federation insists the payments and stock option it received are above reproach, saying it had initially wanted a cash payment for its agreement to sign the contract, but Formula One’s management offered the discounted share. The federation said it needed the increased payments from Formula One to remain an “effective regulator for an increasingly complex and global sport.” It is unclear why the one-time $5 million payment was made in a separate component of the 2013 agreement. Damian Collins, the British lawmaker who made the initial complaint to investigators in London, where Formula One is based, said he had closely examined the Concorde Agreement and could find “no logical explanation” for the deal agreed with the federation. “The question is, does acting that way influence the decision that was made?” he said in a phone interview.