 PITTSBURGH — In an endlessly surprising year for the N.F.L., filled with attacks on the league from a sitting president, a politically charged debate over the national anthem, and more controversy over the league’s handling of its concussion protocol, perhaps what happened here Sunday on a frigid afternoon was only fitting. The Jacksonville Jaguars, a franchise that had not won a division title since Bill Clinton was president, upset the Pittsburgh Steelers, those mighty six-time Super Bowl champions, by 45-42 in a divisional-round game that was not actually that close. The result upended expectations for the rest of the playoffs. The Steelers were supposed to be the last team capable of stopping the New England Patriots, who will appear in their seventh consecutive conference title game next week. Instead, the Jaguars — that’s right, the usually hapless Jaguars! — will try to deny the Patriots a third Super Bowl berth in four years. The N.F.L. will have to wait at least another year for a Patriots-Steelers showdown that would have been a shot in the arm to the league’s sagging television ratings. Maybe hubris played a part. The Steelers finished the season with 13 wins and might have claimed home field through the A.F.C. playoffs had a touchdown pass to tight end Jesse James in a game against the Patriots last month not been overturned by a controversial call. The Steelers have burned for a second shot at New England ever since. On Saturday, Steelers running back Le’Veon Bell seemed be looking past the Jaguars when he wrote on Twitter that “we’ll have two round 2’s in back to back weeks,” a reference to a rematch with the Patriots. The Jaguars, who had the second-stingiest defense in the league this season, took umbrage. “It disrespected us,” defensive lineman Malik Jackson said of the tweet. “They were overlooking us like we weren’t anything.” The Steelers were favorites against Jacksonville on Sunday, but their confidence required some optimism that history would not repeat itself. That was because the Jaguars had trounced the Steelers, 30-9, in Week 5, a game that fueled Jacksonville’s run to its first division title in nearly two decades and its first winning season since 2007. But the Steelers were missing several key players in their earlier matchup, and the Jaguars’ much-improved offense had slowed late in the season. It was not to be. The Jaguars shocked the Steelers in a topsy-turvy slugfest that sent Jacksonville to the A.F.C. championship game for the first time since the 1999 season, and the Steelers to the video room to see what had gone so wrong so fast. Given the long odds of the Jaguars’ staging yet another big upset on the road and in the cold weather, it may be left to the Eagles or the Vikings to do what nearly everyone outside the northeast corner of the United States would prefer — knocking the Patriot freight train off its rails. For the moment, though, the focus is on the Jaguars, whose performance was as surprising as was the demise of the Steelers, who yielded 45 points, tied for the most the storied franchise has ever given up in a playoff game. Quarterback Ben Roethlisberger looked brilliant at times, throwing for 469 yards and five touchdowns, and flummoxed at others — much the way he did when the Jaguars intercepted five of his passes in their game in October. “To lose this at home, I know there will be some to say we had a great season, thanks for the ride,” Roethlisberger said. “But a lot of them are disappointed like we are. It wasn’t enough.” As Jackson suggested, the Jaguars are not the same team that spent a decade without a winning season. In addition to drafting running back Leonard Fournette, who ran for 109 yards and three touchdowns Sunday, the Jaguars hired Tom Coughlin to oversee the team’s football operations. His veteran presence — he won two Super Bowls with the Giants — appeared to take the team to a new level. Fortunately for the Jaguars, Coughlin knows a little about what it takes to beat New England in the playoffs. (See: Super Bowls XLII and XLVI.) He will most likely have plenty to say this week. Whatever advice he gave Jaguars Coach Doug Marrone seemed to work on Sunday. Jacksonville raced down the field on the opening drive. Rather than settle for a field goal, Marrone went for a touchdown on fourth down, and Fournette made him look smart when he plunged into the end zone from 1 yard out. The Steelers appeared poised to even the score, but the Jaguars’ defense stood tall. Linebacker Myles Jack picked off Roethlisberger’s pass on the Steelers’ 18-yard line, and Fournette scored on the next play. The sellout crowd of 64,524 at Heinz Field, where it was 18 degrees at kickoff, squirmed. “The way our defense has played all year, there hasn’t been many games where we’ve had to go back out and score again,” Jacksonville quarterback Blake Bortles said. But, he added, “we continued to score and give our defense a little bit of space.” Bortles, who looked lost in the team’s victory over the Buffalo Bills in the wild-card round, was more sure-footed against the Steelers, completing 14 of 26 passes for 214 yards, one touchdown and, critically, no interceptions. True to form, the Steelers charged back in the second half, with Roethlisberger throwing touchdown passes to Bell, Antonio Brown and JuJu Smith-Schuster. But the Jaguars kept matching the Steelers’ scores. After Bortles hit fullback Tommy Bohanon with a 14-yard touchdown pass with just over four minutes remaining to put his team ahead by 42-28, most of the fans in Heinz Field headed for the exits. Outside the Jaguars’ locker room, the team’s owner, Shahid Khan, had a wide smile. His team won just 17 games in the first five seasons after he bought the team, the worst record in the N.F.L. during that stretch. Just having a winning record would have been welcome. But the team won the A.F.C. South, then won its first playoff home game of the 21st century. It was all supposed to come to a crashing halt here in Pittsburgh, where the Steelers have been dominant in the playoffs. The cold weather was supposed to favor the home team, not the one from Florida. The Steelers’ lineup was stacked with All-Pro talent. So Khan had an understandably dazed look when he was asked if he could have imagined the Jaguars making it this far. Speaking of past years, Khan said, “Our season would have been over a month ago or more, and it would have been, ‘What are we doing in the off-season?’” Then he added, wistfully, “To me, just to be talking about being relevant in December would have been nice.” For the first time, Khan can enjoy relevant games in January.