 Two weeks after publicy promising major roster changes amid a season sliding away, the Rangers on Thursday traded their leading goal scorer, Michael Grabner, to the Devils. Grabner has 25 goals and six assists in 59 games this season, and the trade makes him the 12th player to spend time with the Rangers, the Islanders and the Devils. The Rangers received a second-round draft pick in the June draft and defenseman Yegor Rykov, 20, from the Devils, who are currently in playoff position, 11 points ahead of the Rangers in the Metropolitan Division. It is the first trade between the Rangers and the Devils since the Colorado Rockies moved to New Jersey and became the Devils in 1982. The last trade between the franchises came in November 1979, when the Rangers acquired defenseman Barry Beck from the Rockies for five players. Grabner scored 27 goals for the Rangers last season after they signed him to a two-year, $3.3 million contract. He can become an unrestricted free agent on July 1. Grabner, a 30-year-old Austrian, has also played for Vancouver and Toronto during his nine-year N.H.L. career. He scored a career-best 34 goals for the Islanders in 2010-11. The trade is the second this week for the Rangers; they sent defenseman Nick Holden to the Boston Bruins for defenseman Rob O’Gara and a 2018 third-round draft pick. The Rangers have lost five straight games, and 12 of their last 15, falling into last place in their division. They have missed the playoffs only once in the last 12 seasons, and the lone absence came down to the last day of the 2009-10 regular season. Grabner and his fellow forward Rick Nash were scratched from the Rangers’ lineup for Thursday’s 3-1 loss at Montreal, fueling speculation that trades might be near. Nash, who also will be an unrestricted free agent after the season, is expected to be traded before Monday’s deadline. Nash, 33, has 18 goals and 10 assists in 60 games this season. He scored a career-best 42 goals in the 2014-15 season. He is in the final year of an eight-year, $62.4 million contract that he signed with the Columbus Blue Jackets, who traded him to the Rangers in July 2012. Ryan McDonagh, the Rangers’ captain who has not played since a 6-1 loss to Boston on Feb. 7 because of an upper-body injury, has also been mentioned in trade speculation. His contract will expire after next season. The Rangers host Minnesota on Friday and Detroit on Sunday before leaving for a trip to Western Canada after Monday’s deadline.