 HARTFORD — First came a commemorative ball presented before tipoff to Azura Stevens in acknowledgment of her 1,000th college career point, notched in a recent road victory. Later came an acerbic and typically hyperbolic assessment from her Connecticut women’s basketball coach, Geno Auriemma, who deadpanned: “A thousand points and up to today she got 999 of them at Duke.” In between came the most impactful points the 6-foot-6 Stevens has scored since transferring to UConn and perhaps, considering the weighty circumstances, in her life. Down 11 points early in the fourth quarter Sunday to No. 3 Notre Dame, a fired-up rival taking it to the top-ranked Huskies? A home-court winning streak of 68 games on the line? Playing the entire fourth quarter with four fouls and in the cross hairs of a coach demanding that she become more mobile on offense and more aggressive on defense? A disbelieving crowd of 15,564 at the XL Center waiting for her — or someone — to save the day? Welcome to Connecticut, where even the prospect of defeat sounds existential statewide alarms. “Definitely one of the games I was looking for in a program,” Stevens said after scoring 10 of her 17 points in a 24-9 fourth-quarter rush that carried the Huskies (7-0) past the Irish, 80-71. Asked if she felt as if she’d finally been baptized in Geno World, Stevens giggled and said, “What do you mean by that?” By that, the questioner meant that if a nationally televised game in early December had the aura of Armageddon, imagine what the postseason will be like for the Huskies, considering their 111-game winning streak was wrecked at the buzzer by Mississippi State in the national semifinals last spring. Stevens watched the stunning end of that latest pursuit of perfection from courtside, where she spent all of last season observing the transfer eligibility rule after leaving behind Duke — and her family in her home state of North Carolina. Her stated reasons for switching programs after her first two college seasons were that she wished to get better playing for the unyielding Auriemma, and that she wanted to win a national title. But with those ambitions come Auriemma’s demands of never-ending effort and selflessness, sound-tracked by a reliable flow of candid and often caustic commentary. “She knew what she was signing up for,” Stevens’s sister, Da’Shena, said. Da’Shena Stevens, six years older than Azura (pronounced Az-uh-ray), played at St. John’s, where she is now an assistant coach. A veteran of years on the bench of a one-time Big East rival, Da’Shena Stevens is familiar with UConn custom and expectation. In February 2012, she scored 15 points as the Red Storm ended a run of 99 Connecticut home-court victories. During summer visits home from college, she would play pickup with Azura, their matchups marked by stylistic contrast. “I was the one getting her down in the paint and she was trying to stretch me outside,” Da’Shena said. Having experienced a major growth spurt in middle school, Azura was pressed by her father, Damon, to develop perimeter skills and to establish herself as a 3-point threat in deference to up-tempo trends spreading across the basketball universe. Her role model, according to Patrick Daly, her coach at Cary High School, near Raleigh, was Kevin Durant. Tall and thin, she lacked the strength of the traditional post player, unable to do a push-up when Daly, who had coached against her in the area, became the coach at Cary for Azura’s junior year. “We enticed her to do them with M&amp;Ms,” he said in a telephone interview. Daly regularly attended her games at Duke, where she was an Atlantic Coast Conference first-teamer as a sophomore, and he has stayed in touch through text messages since the bold move north. Rare is the high-profile transfer to Connecticut, where Auriemma prefers bad habits to be broken and indoctrination to be complete by a player’s junior year. Stevens, eligible to play through next season, practiced with the 2016-17 Huskies. But game execution cannot be rehearsed. “We’re used to having post players that are really active, taking up a lot of space,” Auriemma said. “It’s taking Azura a while to become that kind of defensive player. And we’re trying offensively to get her to go to more places to get her shots. That’s not easy when you’ve played a different way a lot of years.” Elaborating, he added: “Z’s makeup doesn’t match her talent. Her talent’s really big but her makeup is not that big. She doesn’t really demand that much from herself yet. She’s been comfortable, and we’re trying to make her uncomfortable.” The best advice Daly, the high school coach, could give the laid-back Stevens upon her transfer was to remind her: “One of the things Geno never has to do is coach effort. Because if you don’t push yourself, here comes another All American.” That calculation suddenly changed on Sunday when Gabby Williams was held out by Auriemma in the second half — a result of her chronic migraines — and after Katie Lou Samuelson, after scoring 18 points, limped off in tears early in the fourth quarter with a tweak of the ankle injury that cost her four recent games. That left Auriemma with Stevens, playing with her four fouls, and the freshman Megan Walker on the floor against a Muffet McGraw-coached team that had outmuscled and outplayed the Huskies, taking command with a 24-4 second-quarter run. Everyone should have Auriemma’a problems, forced to play Stevens, who had 25 points and 16 rebounds against Michigan State while taking Samuelson’s starting position, and Walker, considered this season’s top recruited high school player. At his wit’s end to solve Notre Dame’s physical defense, he ordered up a two-man game, with Stevens screening high for the talented forward Napheesa Collier, and sliding low. In motion, Stevens was much harder to defend in the lane than as a stationary target. A 20-2 run finished off the Irish (7-1) and left McGraw to say, of Stevens, “Ah, she’s big, a great addition to their team.” Stevens, meanwhile, credited Auriemma for staying on her case. “Coach has been getting on me to make sure I’m not too much of inside or outside,” he said. It’s only December. The getting-on season has only just begun.