 GANGNEUNG, South Korea — These were going to be the Redemption Games for Elise Christie, who crashed or was disqualified from all three of her individual races in short-track speedskating at the 2014 Olympics in Sochi. In the four years since, Britain’s Christie had collected more than a dozen medals, she said, while competing against the best in her sport. At last year’s world championships, against essentially the same fields she would face here, Christie recorded two victories. She was considered the brightest medal hope for a Britain team that, entering Tuesday night, had already matched its highest medal total at a Winter Games with four. With a podium finish in her favorite event, the 1,000 meters, Christie could seal Britain’s best-ever showing. But first she had to make it through Tuesday’s qualifying heats, which was no given. Christie’s Redemption Games had unfolded like a rerun of 2014. In her first event, the 500 meters, she crashed in the final and finished fourth. In the semifinals of the 1,500, she was carried off the ice in a stretcher after a collision that caused her right ankle to swell like bread dough. As Christie received treatment for ligament damage, a debate raged in her head. “Parts of me were saying, ‘It’s not meant to be, don’t bother going on,’” she said. “And part of me was saying, ‘Just fight once more, give it one more try.’” Another debate raged on social media, where people wondered: Was Christie a star-crossed Olympian? Or did the Olympics bring out the worst in her? For every person on Twitter who suggested Christie cracked under pressure, there were several others who came to her defense. In the days leading up to the 1,000, Christie retweeted several messages of support, including one from a woman who pointedly asked Christie’s detractors, “When did any of you get to represent your country at anything?” Christie, 27, who received death threats after taking out South Korea’s leading contender in a collision in Sochi, Russia, described the support as “incredible” and said, “To me it means more than the medal that people can see how hard I’ve tried.” All eyes were on Christie when she skated to the starting line for the fifth of eight heats. Before the first curve, she got tangled with another skater, fell and skidded into the safety pads. Under short-track rules, a crash on the first lap results in a restart. But first Christie had to get back on her feet. She tried a couple times to rise, without success. She thought she was done. “I can’t describe the amount of pain I was in,” Christie said. But then she said she imagined all the people watching back home. “And I just thought, I’m going to give it my best shot,” she said, adding, “I thought of the adrenaline and how that might take over.” She rose unsteadily, favoring her right foot, and gingerly skated over to consult with her coach before returning to the starting line for the nine-lap race. Christie was last after the first lap, last after the second, last after the third. Then, as the spectators at Gangneung Ice Arena threw their voices behind her, she made her move. “The support from Korea, the support from the U.K., has been insane,” said Christie, who was second with a lap to go. In the final meters, there was some jostling for position, but Christie held her ground and finished behind Lara van Ruijven of the Netherlands. “I just thought it was a normal race and I moved up and I qualified and I was so happy,” Christie said. But it was not to be. She received a yellow card for two separate minor infringements. Christie said she had no idea what she had done. All she knew was that for the second consecutive Olympics, she would leave with nothing tangible to show for four years of monomaniacal devotion to her sport. Christie stepped off the ice and was scooped up by the national short-track coach, Nicky Gooch. In 1994, Gooch won Britain’s first medal in short-track speedskating. Christie had come here hoping to become her country’s first gold medalist and second medal-winner in the sport. As reporters waited to talk with her, they were joined by Scott Field, the head of communications for the British Olympic Association, who said softly: “Go easy on her. Do me a favor.” Christie cried after her first two failures to medal here, but on Tuesday night her eyes stayed mostly dry. She had trouble getting through her first television interview, but not because she was upset. “I’m not crying, I’m just coughing,” she said. She dismissed any talk of an Olympic jinx, saying: “It’s not because it’s an Olympics. It’s just because it’s short-track. That’s the way it goes sometimes.” Christie was devastated for a long time after the Sochi Olympics, but she said she expected the healing process to be quicker this time. The difference, she explained, was that in 2014 she wondered if maybe she wasn’t cut out to be an Olympic medalist — “It wasn’t in me,” is how she put it — and that is why she had faltered. “I don’t see that now,” Christie added. “I just see it was three races that went rubbish in the last four years.”