 ARLINGTON, Tex. — The Los Angeles Chargers and their quarterback, Philip Rivers, are on the move. The Dallas Cowboys and their quarterback, Dak Prescott, are fading fast. Rivers threw for 434 yards and three touchdowns on Thursday, in his first N.F.L. Thanksgiving game after 14 seasons in the league, and the Chargers beat the declining Cowboys, 28-6. Desmond King returned an interception 90 yards for the punctuating touchdown, and the Chargers, who started the season at 0-4, moved to 5-6 and within a game and a half of the A.F.C. West lead, which is held by the Kansas City Chiefs. The Cowboys, the defending N.F.C. East champions, have lost three consecutive games, each decided by 20 points or more. The losing streak began as Dallas running back Ezekiel Elliott started serving a six-game suspension imposed by the league because of domestic violence allegations. Dallas, which was playing its 50th Thanksgiving game, ended a touchdown drought at a team-record 10 quarters on Rod Smith’s 2-yard run early in the fourth quarter. The Cowboys have been outscored, 72-6, in the second halves of the three straight losses. Chargers receiver Keenan Allen had a career-high 172 yards on 11 catches with a touchdown, giving him 23 grabs for 331 yards and three scores in the past two games. Prescott has looked lost without Elliott, his backfield mate. Prescott threw two interceptions, giving him five in the last two games and nine over all this season. He threw just four all last season, when he was named the offensive rookie of the year. Dallas left tackle Tyron Smith, a four-time Pro Bowl selection, returned after missing two games with back and groin injuries, but the Cowboys lost right guard Zack Martin to a concussion in the first half. Rivers, who was 27 of 33 for a 149.1 passer rating without a sack, had seven completions of at least 22 yards. That included Allen’s weaving 42-yard catch-and-run for a score. Allen ran past safety Jeff Heath on the sideline, cut between two more safeties — Xavier Woods and Byron Jones — and then eluded cornerback Anthony Brown to give the Chargers a 22-6 lead. Austin Ekeler had a 38-yard catch to set up the Chargers’ first touchdown in the third quarter, and Tyrell Williams had a 31-yard catch before making a 27-yard scoring catch.