 DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. — Nascar’s next generation is still at the starting line, but the sport is eager to see a new face posing for photos in Victory Lane. It can’t come fast enough. Two years ago, Jeff Gordon, who might have done more than any driver to spread stock car racing’s popularity across the country, retired to the broadcasting booth. Last year saw Nascar’s biggest name, Dale Earnhardt Jr., hang up his racing helmet. As Nascar heads into Sunday’s Daytona 500 and a new season, it keeps mining its youth, hoping that a fresh driver can emerge to energize its brand and offset an aging fan base and diminishing TV viewership and ticket sales. There are more than enough names to choose from: Chase Elliott, 22; Ryan Blaney, 24; Kyle Larson, 25; Daniel Suárez, 26; Ty Dillon, 25; Eric Jones, 21; and a handful of other neophytes. By default, as well as by virtue of his surname, Elliott, the son of the Nascar champion Bill Elliott, has emerged as the face of this generation. But he is quick to point out that he is 0-for-78 in Cup races. Speedweeks at Daytona have been promising at least. Alex Bowman, 24, who replaced Earnhardt in the No. 88 car for Hendrick Motorsports, will start the Daytona 500 from the pole position. Elliott and Blaney will be in the second row after winning the qualifying duels Thursday. One driver in particular has the potential to do more than anyone to shake up the sport. A graduate of Nascar’s Drive for Diversity program, Darrell Wallace Jr., 24, could give stock car racing something it has never had before: an African-American star. But that is not why Richard Petty brought Wallace onto his team. Late last season, Wallace, who goes by the nickname Bubba, got four rides with Richard Petty Motorsports. It was enough for Petty, one of Nascar’s most iconic names, to not only give Wallace a full-time ride, but also to give him his famed No. 43 racecar to drive. Wallace is the first African-American to drive full-time in the top Nascar series since Wendell Scott in 1971. Petty insisted, though, that he is colorblind when it comes to evaluating talent. Sure, it would be great if Wallace brings the sport into the African-American community, but as far as Petty is concerned, that’s secondary. “I hope he advances us as a race team,” Petty said in an email. “I care about what Bubba can do behind the wheel for us. The rest, there are a lot of eyes on Bubba, but he’s handling it well. I know come Sunday he’ll be ready to get into a racecar and just show his talent. If he does well, the rest will come and he’ll grow our fan base.” Those eyes on Wallace, much as they were on Tiger Woods a generation ago, prompted Earnhardt to call him last week. The son of racing legend, Earnhardt knows all about the pressure of expectations. “He told me that the next few weeks will basically be hell with all the off-the-track stuff,” Wallace said. “But he said it’ll all be worth it because I have an opportunity to do things outside the sport that not many other drivers will ever say they’ve had that kind of opportunity to do. So embrace it.” The child of a white father and a black mother, Wallace said that he does not quite understand why his skin color makes him newsworthy in 2018. But he knows that stock car racing, with its Southern roots and the Confederate flags that still wave from some fans’ campers and cars, has not attracted an African-American audience. “I’m just trying to carry that new face, to carry that new image to young people,” Wallace said. “Obviously we’ve got to do a lot of work outside of the tracks, stepping out into our local communities. But there’s also venturing out into a different market, into different avenues where the African-American culture lives. We all have to do better at that.” There are challenges, of course. On social media, where vulgar epithets can be spewed from faceless and fictitious monikers, Wallace has, at times, had to think twice before responding. He admits he has not always been successful. “There is always going to be haters out there, people who don’t want to see you succeed,” he said. “I’ve been told that since Day 1 from my parents. Just keep your head down and keep moving, that’s the best you can do.” Blaney, his closest friend on the circuit, has been around Wallace when offensive remarks have been made. “Thankfully, it’s very, very rare, but it upsets me,” Blaney said. “Bubba’s great at handling it. He’s an amazing ambassador for the sport. And he’s really talented and a heck of a competitor. All of us are competitive, but his competitiveness is unlike anyone I’ve ever seen.” Nascar’s diversity has become an issue again after its only female racer, Danica Patrick, announced she will retire from the circuit after the Daytona 500. But Wallace is not the only driver who can energize an overlooked community. What he can do for an African-American audience, Suárez can do for the Latino market. A native of Monterrey, Mexico, Suárez said he had noticed an uptick in social media messages from a variety of Latino countries. “It’s usually either people who tell me they’re now following the sport because of me, or they’ve been fans and now they have a driver to root for,” said Suárez, who is also a graduate of the Drive for Diversity program. “The potential is huge. This is the most diverse country in the world, but we have to improve diversity in Nascar. If we can make the sport more diverse, we’ll see the same thing with fans. More diversity on the racetrack will mean more diversity in the stands.” In the meantime, Nascar waits, wondering who will emerge as its next star.