 HANOVER, Germany — Most referees would rather spend an afternoon in a dentist’s chair than see their name in a newspaper headline. In their world, anonymity implies a job well done. So forgive Bibiana Steinhaus for rolling her eyes when she thinks about the various times she has been tugged into the soccer news cycle. There was the men’s game she officiated seven years ago when a player accidentally touched her breast. There was the time in 2014 when Pep Guardiola, then the manager of Bayern Munich, put his hand on her — first angrily, then apologetically — as she  did her job as a fourth official. There was the German Cup match, just this summer, when a mischievous Franck Ribéry untied her shoelace before a free kick. Steinhaus, 38, brushed these moments aside when they occurred, but to her dismay, each incident was caught on video, and each quickly was blown up, in her view, far out of proportion. “I work my butt off for 20 years,” Steinhaus said with a sharp laugh, “and I’m famous for that?” That and, now, much more. On a crisp afternoon this week, Steinhaus, whose career has included officiating the finals of every major global women’s soccer competition, recapped the invigorating last few months of her life. In September, she reached a new professional pinnacle, officiating her first game in the Bundesliga, the top level of German soccer. In doing so, she became the first woman to referee a match in one of Europe’s top leagues. Nursing the vestiges of a cold with sips of hot peppermint tea, she alternated between nonchalant professionalism (“I’m doing the same job as all my colleagues”) and earnest excitement about the achievement (“This is the freaking Bundesliga! This is cool!”), all while reckoning with the multidimensional state of being a pioneering female in a male-dominated field. “I don’t think I embrace it,” she said of a status that still feels mildly uncomfortable. “I deal with it.” Still, that first game in the Bundesliga, on Sept. 10, in front of a crowd of 49,118 in Berlin, gave Steinhaus a different magnitude of fame. Hertha B.S.C., the home club, offered half-price “Bibiana tickets” to female fans, and Reinhard Grindel, the president of the German soccer federation, turned up to watch from the stands. For Steinhaus, the daughter of an amateur referee who took her first officiating course at age 15, promotion to the Bundesliga was the realization of a lifelong dream. But it was in the flood of messages she received before, during and after the game that she began to grasp the remarkable extent to which others were invested in her achievement. “You’re breaking the glass ceiling for all of us,” a fellow female referee texted her. Her promotion highlighted a recent stretch of progress for women in her profession. In 2016, FIFA, for the first time, merged its training courses for men and women. And over the summer, seven women, including Carol Anne Chenard, were selected to work matches at the under-17 men’s World Cup in India, with one, Esther Staubli of Switzerland, acting as the center referee in a group-stage match. But none of those steps, Chenard said, could match the power of seeing her longtime friend referee a match in one of the world’s best leagues. “It can really push people to see things differently,” Chenard said of Steinhaus’s professional ascent. “I think it can be an important message that things are going to change, and it won’t have to be a big news story the next time it happens.” Being defined by her profession, though, and not merely by her gender remains a work in progress. Steinhaus became animated, for example, when it was pointed out that despite her new prominence in the game she continued to be referred to as “Howard Webb’s girlfriend” by certain news media outlets and soccer fans. She has dated Webb, a retired English referee, for several years, and she travels to visit him every few months in New York, where he now lives while working for Major League Soccer. “This is my status? Honestly?” Steinhaus said. “Of course, I’m damn proud to be that girl. But nobody says, ‘That’s Bibiana Steinhaus’s boyfriend.’” Steinhaus was 15 when she took her first steps toward qualifying as a referee, and within five years she was certified to officiate by the German soccer federation. She found that the job was appealingly complex: Each game represented a 90-minute world within a world, wherein she was tasked with interpreting rules and selling decisions to 22 uniquely delicate psyches. But she was good at it: As her career progressed, she was assigned to referee at major women’s tournaments and a number of big matches, including the 2012 Olympic women’s final and last summer’s women’s Champions League final. Since 2007, she had been refereeing men’s games in the German second division. While rising through the ranks, Steinhaus was simultaneously cultivating a career as a police officer. These days, she still works 25 hours a week for the regional police department, though her schedule and growing celebrity have for the past two years confined her to a desk. “It’s difficult to be a cop on a street when people just want to discuss offside calls,” she said. On the soccer field, Steinhaus generally plays down the role her gender plays in her job. When asked if she thought the incidents with Guardiola and Ribéry would have happened if she were a man, she said, “Maybe, maybe not.” But she has not shied away from the issue, either. In 2015, for example, during a second-division match in Germany, Steinhaus showed a second yellow card to Kerem Demirbay, a midfielder for Fortuna Düsseldorf. After starting to leave the field, Demirbay circled back to Steinhaus and said, “Women have no place in men’s football.” Steinhaus had heard abuse in stadiums countless times — her mother, Renate, has not attended any of her matches since hearing an endless stream of profanity and sexist comments directed toward her daughter in a third-division game several years ago — but this was the first time it was so explicitly aimed at her on the field. “I thought to myself: Do I really have to ignore that? This is over the top,” Steinhaus said. She did not. She included the incident in her match report, and the league suspended Demirbay for five games. Still, the role of a pioneer, a symbol of change, is one Steinhaus is not entirely comfortable with. “For me, it’s not a big thing,” she said. “But I have to deal with it because it’s a big thing for other people.” But before that first Bundesliga game in Berlin, she said, she felt a different sort of weight. She found herself wanting to perform well to pay back the trust of the people who had put her in that position. And she felt suddenly, strongly, that she had to do her job well for the sake of all the women around the world who might come after her. “Because if it doesn’t work here, maybe there won’t be a person in their country who will give them that chance,” she said. Of course, the game, like the hundreds she had officiated before, and the handful more since, passed without a hitch. In a few weeks, the magnitude of the moment gradually faded, and her assignments were no longer media events. For her second Bundesliga game, in mid-October, the coverage of her performance was limited to a few paragraphs in the local paper. It was just the way she wanted it.