 The University of Connecticut has hired Dan Hurley as its next men’s basketball coach, hoping to turn the page on the coaching tenure of Kevin Ollie, which began with a national championship but ended with an N.C.A.A. investigation, the team’s first losing seasons in 30 years and potential litigation. Hurley spent the previous six seasons as Rhode Island’s head coach, and the two before that as the head coach at Wagner, on Staten Island. He took Rhode Island to the last two N.C.A.A. tournaments. Last week, the seventh-seeded Rams beat Oklahoma before falling to second-seeded Duke. Hurley is the son of Bob Hurley, formerly the longtime coach at St. Anthony High School in Jersey City, and the younger brother of Bobby Hurley, a college star at Duke who is now the head coach at Arizona State. “This program, which is part of one of the top public universities in the country, has a championship history and wonderful support from a passionate fan base,” Dan Hurley said Thursday in a school statement. “I look forward to continuing this proud tradition.” The UConn men’s program was largely overlooked and unaccomplished until Jim Calhoun took over in the mid-1980s. Calhoun made the Huskies competitive and then dominant, winning three national titles in his final 14 seasons. Ollie, Calhoun’s former player, succeeded Calhoun, and in his second season led the program to its fourth national title. But that was also the first season that UConn played in the American Athletic Conference. The former Big East, of which the university had been a charter member, had splintered, and unlike several other historic Big East members who either landed in the Atlantic Coast Conference or a newer, football-less Big East, UConn has arguably struggled to recruit in the A.A.C. In January, UConn revealed that the N.C.A.A. was investigating the recruitment of at least three players. This month, shortly after its season ended, UConn fired Ollie with cause, which according to reports could save the university millions of dollars. At the time, Ollie pledged to contest this decision and said that he had always “promoted an atmosphere of compliance.”