 Chris Long, the Eagles defensive end, will donate his entire salary this season to charity. Long announced this week that he would send his last 10 game checks to educational charities in the three cities where he has played, Philadelphia, St. Louis and Boston. This season he said his first six checks would go to to scholarships at a private school in his hometown, Charlottesville, Va. Long, 32, is to make a base salary of $1 million this season. —- N.F.C. Championship Game: Eagles Dominate Vikings to Reach Super Bowl LII —- “I’m playing the entire 2017 N.F.L. season without collecting income because I believe that education is the best gateway to a better tomorrow for everyone in America,” Long said in a statement. He told The Associated Press on Wednesday, “I think we can all agree that equity in education can help effect change that we all want to see in this country.” Long, the son of the Hall of Famer and broadcaster Howie Long, has been involved in charity and activism for some time. He started a foundation two years ago that supports causes including assuring access to clean water worldwide, fighting homelessness, supporting veterans and helping children in need. Long, who is white, drew attention this season for putting his arm around his black teammate Malcolm Jenkins, who raised his fist during the national anthem to protest discrimination and police brutality. A member of the champion Patriots last season when they won the Super Bowl, Long was among several members of the team who chose to stay away from its White House visit with President Trump. “Some people are tired of hearing me tweet because they want me to stick to football but I like to use social media like I was a regular guy because I think I am,” Long told NBC Sports Philadelphia in August. “I don’t tell people to stick to their job when they want to talk politics.” Referring to neo-Nazis marching in his hometown, he said: “For me, being from Charlottesville, no one wants to see you sit idly by and watch that stuff happen and not say anything. And I wish there was more categorical denial from some very important people in this country who have had the opportunity to strike it down but didn’t.”