 With every short pass from Brett Hundley, every drive that ended in a field goal or a punt and every lingering shot of Aaron Rodgers standing on the sideline, it seemed like the Green Bay Packers were falling farther from anything resembling contention. The N.F.C. North is far from having been decided, but after Green Bay’s 30-17 loss at home to the Detroit Lions on Monday night, the Lions certainly seem to have the better chance of challenging the Minnesota Vikings for division supremacy. And if the Packers continue to tumble and slip out of playoff contention, they might not even feel the need to bring Rodgers back once he is eligible to return in Week 15 from the injured reserve, where he landed after breaking his collarbone on Oct. 15. For now, the North is Minnesota’s division to lose. At 6-2 and riding a four-game winning streak, the Vikings are two games ahead of both Detroit and Green Bay. The Upshot’s Playoff Simulator gives the Vikings a 65 percent chance of winning the division. But last season showed that a hot start by the Vikings does not guarantee much, as their 5-0 start to the season was undercut by a 3-8 finish, leaving the Packers and Lions to fight for the division crown on the final day of the regular season (the Packers won out). When breaking down the three contenders, the biggest argument for the Lions is their quarterback stability. Matthew Stafford, who has not missed a game since 2010, is a true franchise quarterback (with a salary commensurate of such a distinction) who has a knack for late-game heroics. On Monday he did not need another of his signature comebacks, as he completed 26 of 33 passes for 361 yards and two touchdowns in his team’s blowout win. The win was just Detroit’s second victory in Green Bay since the start of the 1992 season (a span of 27 games). The Packers are in dire straits with Hundley, who was rarely asked to throw the ball more than five yards on Monday night, but they at least have the benefit of having a long-term plan at quarterback (hint: It’s Rodgers). The same cannot be said of the Vikings, who have a complicated quarterback controversy on their hands. Case Keenum has performed well in Sam Bradford’s absence, but he will soon be challenged for the starting role not just by Bradford, who is working his way back from a knee injury, but also by Teddy Bridgewater, the Vikings’ former starter who has missed the last 24 regular season games after a devastating knee injury in the 2016 preseason. Bridgewater has the highest upside of the trio — he led the Vikings to an 11-5 record two years ago, breaking the Packers’ streak of division titles at four — while also carrying the most uncertainty, as no one knows exactly how much the knee injury will have changed him as a player. He is expected to be activated this week, but he may begin as a backup to Keenum, or even Bradford, as the Vikings have mostly hedged on his status. “All we’re concerned about is where he is this week,” Rick Spielman, the Vikings’ general manager, told reporters last week. “I know we’re evaluating him in practice every day. And then we’ll have to make a decision coming up next week — not if he’s going to start or not start, but if he’s going to come up to the 53. That’s the next step.” How the quarterback situation plays out for Minnesota over the next two weeks could go a long way in determining the stakes of the Vikings’ Week 12 game at Detroit. Minnesota has two difficult matchups ahead of them: traveling to face the Redskins in Washington before hosting the red-hot Los Angeles Rams. The Lions, on the other hand, have winnable matchups against the Cleveland Browns and Chicago Bears, so the teams could be even at 6-4 when they face off, which would put enormous pressure on the Vikings. Coming into Monday night’s game, Akeem Spence, a defensive tackle for the Lions, offered a simple recipe for Detroit to have a strong second half of the season on their way to a playoff spot. “You’ve got to win in November to get in, so that’s something that everybody in here understands,” Spence told reporters. “We’ve just got to clean up the little small things and get it done, man. Get it done.” Monday was not perfect, but they got it done. And if the Lions keep getting it done, Green Bay could slip into irrelevance and Minnesota’s division lead could be in trouble.