 EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — Matt Forte ran for two touchdowns four days after complaining the Jets did not run the ball enough, and an overwhelming defense sacked Tyrod Taylor seven times Thursday night in the Jets’ 34-21 win over the Buffalo Bills. Follow our live coverage of N.F.L. Week 9 here. Buffalo (5-3) came in having scored 64 points in its last two wins, but the Bills self-destructed with turnovers and miscues. The Jets (4-5), who snapped a three-game slide in which they held leads in each defeat, looked more like a challenger to New England in the A.F.C. East. Forte scored on runs of 10 and 5 yards and had 14 carries for 77 yards. Augmenting that was Bilal Powell with a 51-yard burst and 74 yards on nine carries. Quarterback Josh McCown had a 10-yard scramble to open the scoring and the Jets rushed for 194 yards over all. Jordan Jenkins had two of the Jets’ sacks as they never allowed Buffalo’s offense to get on track. Indeed, mistakes were the Bills’ trademark. Buffalo made a key error on the Jets’ second touchdown drive. Cedric Thornton sacked McCown but grabbed his face mask. The 15-yard penalty, which followed a 20-yard pass to Jermaine Kearse and a 22-yard run by Forte, led to Robby Anderson beating double coverage for a 25-yard touchdown reception. Forte’s 10-yard run made it 24-7 and came one play after Powell broke four tackles on his 51-yard jaunt that featured slick moves and plenty of speed. The Bills hurt themselves further when Nick O’Leary fumbled on a strange play. O’Leary caught Taylor’s third-down pass and fell to the ground untouched. He delayed, heard no whistle, and got up. But the ball then was stripped by the rookie safety Marcus Maye and recovered by safety Jamal Adams, also a rookie. Adding to the miscues, Bills defensive end Jerry Hughes drew a 15-yard unsportsmanlike conduct penalty for mouthing off to an official — during a timeout, no less — on the ensuing Jets drive. Taylor also fumbled when sacked for the sixth time, and Forte’s 5-yard touchdown run followed. And even when the Bills recovered a late onside kick, they were flagged for offside. The Jets opened the scoring — the fourth straight game they have led early — after some strong defense pinned Buffalo near its goal line. A punt set up the Jets near midfield and they used eight plays to score. McCown, looking very spry for a 38-year-old quarterback, went in untouched down the left side on a scramble for a 7-0 Jets lead. Buffalo matched that, aided by Taylor’s 18-yard scramble on third down. Zay Jones, another rookie, caught his first pro touchdown, an 11-yarder when he got wide open over the middle. An offensive pass interference call on Austin Sefarian-Jenkins scoring catch negated his touchdown early in the second quarter and the Jets settled for Chandler Catanzaro’s 45-yard field goal to retake the lead. He later hit a 32-yarder. The Jets found a pass rush that was missing in action most of the year. They came in with 11 sacks, which was last among teams that had played eight games. Buffalo scored two late touchdowns to make the final margin less lopsided.