 The Nets-Warriors game in Oakland on Tuesday night looked like a horrific mismatch. The Warriors were 15-point favorites. And sure enough, in the first quarter, Golden State went on a 25-0 run. But then something strange happened. Caris LeVert made dunks and layups. D’Angelo Russell hit some shots. The Nets somehow came back and took the lead at halftime. The Nets lost the game, of course, but their improbable run revealed something about the team that has been hidden by their 20-45 record, tied for the worst in the East. The Nets may have won only one of their last 13 games, but they are actually overachieving. Look at the team’s personnel. The Nets’ most productive player this season has been Spencer Dinwiddie, an unheralded third-year point guard out of Colorado. Never a regular starter before this season, Dinwiddie is averaging 13 points a game, but shoots only 39 percent and isn’t known for smothering defense. At 31, forward DeMarre Carroll is on his seventh team. Guys like Allen Crabbe and Rondae Hollis-Jefferson are playing key roles. Meanwhile, Jeremy Lin was lost for the season in the opening game. The top scorer from last year’s 20-62 team, Brook Lopez, was traded over the summer, and the player the Nets got in return, Russell, is just back after missing 30 games for knee surgery. The second, third and fourth leading scorers — Sean Kilpatrick, Bojan Bogdanovic and Trevor Booker — are also gone. (Kilpatrick and Bogdanovic are already on their second teams since the Nets.) Booker was swapped to get Jahlil Okafor (recently missed five games with the flu and did not play Tuesday) and Nik Stauskas (little impact). Does that sound like a team that can win even the 20 games that the Nets already have? It sounds more like the makeshift 76ers of two years ago that barely managed to win 10. The Nets played 10 players against the N.B.A. champions on Tuesday. Along with Russell, a former No. 2 overall pick by the Lakers, they included no one chosen higher than No. 20. Despite some poor seasons, the Nets have not drafted better than No. 22 since 2010, and that player, No. 3 selection Derrick Favors, was gone before a full season. A trade in 2013 with the Celtics for the veterans Kevin Garnett and Paul Pierce eventually cost the Nets the No. 3 overall pick in 2016, the No. 1 overall pick in 2017, and their top pick in the coming draft, very possibly another top 5. So why aren’t the Nets worse? Start with the shots they are choosing. Brooklyn is taking 41 percent of its shots from 3-point range, second only to the mad-bombing Rockets. They are not shooting the 3s all that well, but they are hitting enough, 796 so far, that the extra points are adding up. Along the same lines, they are avoiding that most dreaded of shots, the long 2, taking only 7 percent of their shots from that inefficient range, second again to the Rockets. As you might expect, they top the league in few categories, but are eminently respectable in a few key ones that are often overlooked: The team ranks 12th in getting to the free-throw line and defensively is 12th in opponent’s effective field-goal percentage. Crabbe can really shoot from 3, and Dinwiddie can really pass (fifth in the league in assists). And Russell, when healthy, has the potential to be a franchise player, and at age 22 he has time to grow into that role. “I really enjoyed playing against those guys,” Kevin Durant of the Warriors said on the YES network after Tuesday’s game. “They’ve got a bright future.” It adds up to overachievement, any way you look at it. The Nets have won 59 percent of their games against the point spread, second only to the Celtics. Yes, if you had bet blindly on the Nets, of all teams, this season, you would be making a profit. (It probably comes as no surprise that the Cavaliers have been the league’s worst bet.) If you are a Nets fan, it is tough to see a silver lining from another lost season. Without a lottery pick to compensate for the poor play, the Nets may not get a whole lot better next season either, though Jarrett Allen, the team’s (low) first-rounder from last summer looks promising. But look a little deeper and there are some promising signs. And it sure could be a whole lot worse.