 Women box at the Olympics. They pole-vault and snowboard and play rugby. But one sport in which women do not participate is the little-known winter event known as Nordic combined. The International Olympic Committee, which has for years made equality of participation by gender a goal, wants to change that. So a dictate to F.I.S., the global skiing federation, and national teams went out: Get those women’s Nordic combined programs going. That was easier said than done. Nordic combined requires athletes to both ski jump and cross-country ski. Although some junior programs are out there, for the most part female Nordic combined specialists just don’t exist. “There aren’t that many participants right now,” said Luke Bodensteiner, chief of sport for U.S. Ski and Snowboard, the national governing body. “It hasn’t really developed all that naturally. The I.O.C. said: ‘We need gender balance across all our sports. Otherwise the future prospects of Nordic combined are bleak.’” So the United States arranged its first national championship for women’s Nordic combined in October. Two athletes showed up. “Development has probably gone less quickly than F.I.S. would like to see it,” Bodensteiner said. Men’s Nordic combined dates to the first Winter Games in 1924, but the women’s sport is in its infancy. It is not part of the Pyeongchang Games. But in all likelihood, ready or not, it will be on the Olympic menu in 2022 in Beijing. Its sudden emergence is giving athletes and federations something of a free shot at Olympic medals. The winner of the two-woman competition, and the first United States national champion, was Nina Lussi, 23, a ski jumper. “I have a bit of a background in Nordic combined,” said Lussi, a native of Lake Placid, N.Y., where the competition was held. “We had Nordic combined races at the junior level up to the age of about 16. Although the cross-country aspect is not my favorite part.” At the nationals, Lussi easily defeated her opponent, Gabby Armstrong, in the ski jumping portion. As a result, she started the cross-country race with a lead of four and a half minutes. Though she skied almost three minutes slower than Armstrong, Lussi held on for the win. Because the event came before significant snowfall in Lake Placid, the cross-country race was held using roller skis. “I took some lessons, ‘learn to roller ski for dummies,’” Lussi said. “I was having trouble breathing on a very steep uphill. Definitely my lungs were thanking me when I was finished.” As for the small field, “I was disappointed,” she said. “I thought it was a good opportunity for the juniors. To not have the entries was disappointing.” So far, ski jumpers are the target athletes for the event, more so than cross-country skiers. “Jumping’s pretty hard to learn,” Bodensteiner said. “I don’t foresee much transfer from cross-country skiing.” He noted that the scoring generally favors jumpers, and that male Nordic combined athletes tend to be “prototypical ski jumpers.” The tentative plan is to scale up women’s Nordic combined rapidly. The first Continental Cup event, the level below World Cup, was held in January in Norway, with 14 entrants (Armstrong placed 12th). A World Cup will follow in 2020, with a world championship in 2021 and the Olympics in 2022. Time is short. “It really has to be done, and it’s the right thing to do,” said Silke Tegethof, the media coordinator for Nordic combined with F.I.S. ”Countries like Germany, Austria and Norway, they started working on their development program up to four years ago,” Lussi said. “We need to get a kick in that direction. We have great hope in Tara.” Tara Geraghty-Moats, 24, is exactly the kind of athlete who could excel in the sport for the United States. She is a top-level ski jumper who has also competed in cross-country skiing and biathlon. She would have been a third participant in the national championships but missed them because of a broken arm. Geraghty-Moats said of the dawn of women’s Nordic combined: “It’s so exciting. I’ve been waiting about 13 years. When I was 10 or 11, people said wouldn’t it be cool because you’re so good” at Nordic combined. “Had there been women’s Nordic combined when I was younger, I would have been a Nordic combined athlete.” She said that many ski jumpers could have the ability to succeed at Nordic combined because of their training background. “Ski jumpers, for sure, they try to get you on cross-country skis,” she said. “It helps with balance and coordination.” One complication of Nordic combined is that the ideal body types for the two elements of the discipline tend to be different. “Ski jumping, you want to be light; cross-country, you want to be fast,” Geraghty-Moats said. Ideal Nordic combined athletes, she said, would be “cross-country skiers with leaner builds.” Women’s Nordic combined is taking an unconventional path to the Olympics. It is not a sport that has bubbled up from the grass roots to force its way into the Games. Instead a top-down edict about gender equality has caused national federations to scramble to start programs. Women are almost certain to have Nordic combined as a medal sport at the Olympics in four years. The opportunity is there; it’s just a matter of who takes it. Bodensteiner said he believed that the lure of the Games would be enough. “Once they start awarding Olympic medals,” he predicted. “People will start chasing them.”