 With each new N.F.L. rule forbidding late hits, low hits, high hits, hits against defenseless players and hits that pile drive an opponent into the ground, the league has tried every magnified, overarching way it can think of to protect its biggest stars. But the N.F.L. has a problem. You can’t legislate the violence out of the game. It is also a football rule that the hits will keep coming, usually until someone with the ball is on the ground. And sometimes not everyone gets up right away. And then the league takes a hit of a different kind. Sunday was just such a day. Aaron Rodgers, the Green Bay Packers quarterback and one of the most prominent figures in American sports, went down with a thud early in a game in Minnesota. He rose but with a broken right collarbone. On Monday, Packers Coach Mike McCarthy said that the injury would require surgery and that Rodgers’s season could be over. His injury is the latest, most dramatic setback for the league, which in a span of eight days, has endured the departure of some its biggest stars. Last week, it was Odell Beckham Jr., the Giants’ popular lightning rod of a wide receiver who exited the arena in pain. His ankle was bent at a gruesome angle on a routine tackle. Beckham has already had the surgery to repair a splintered ankle, but his season has concluded. The same day, J.J. Watt, the Houston Texans’ defensive end and another crossover star for his charitable works and marketability, was sidelined for the year with a fracture of the tibial plateau in his leg. Watt is a three-time winner of the league’s defensive player of the year award. Hours after Rodgers’s injury in a loss on Sunday, Tampa Bay Buccaneers quarterback Jameis Winston, the first overall pick of the 2015 N.F.L. draft, left his team’s game after he was tackled by two defenders and fell on his throwing shoulder. The team announced on Monday that Winston had a sprained AC joint in his shoulder and that he had not been ruled out of Tampa Bay’s game against Buffalo on Sunday. Serious, debilitating injuries happen in every sport every year, not just football. But with the possibility that Rodgers is lost for the season, and with Watt and Beckham already shelved, the shape and competitive balance of the 2017 N.F.L. season is beginning to take a different turn. The tested, experienced Packers, once thought to be in a commanding playoff position, may cede their status as the N.F.C. team most likely on the path to the Super Bowl. Several unexpected, up-and-coming contenders, from the Los Angeles Rams to the Philadelphia Eagles, have emerged instead. At the same time, six weeks in, there will probably be new calls for more rules to keep football’s stars secure and upright. If only it were just a matter of one more rule. There doesn’t appear to be much that could have been done to prevent any of these recent injuries. Rodgers was upset that he was banged to the ground by Minnesota’s Anthony Barr after he had thrown the football. But the ball had just left his hand, and despite the N.F.L.’s already zealous, punitive penalties against contact with the quarterback, no penalty was called on the play. Watt was engaged with a blocker in a fairly typical fashion. Beckham’s twisted leg was horrific to watch, but the contact was legal. Winston, in the most elemental play of all, was chased from behind and tackled to the ground in a way that happens dozens of times in most N.F.L. games and hundreds of times in a season. That may be the overriding point. In the modern N.F.L., the helmets are more technologically advanced. The footwear is improved. Equipment safety guidelines are intricate and enforced. There are far more doctors, including neurologists, on the sideline than ever. The athletic training staff resembles a small army. Video replay ensures that excessive or unnecessarily vicious hits that may not have been noticed initially can be penalized after the fact, even if it is days after a game. The N.F.L. is a business with profits built on the backs of its talent. Especially when it comes to its highest paid employees, it needs a healthy work force, at least in the short term. Cognizant of that reality, the league has taken dozens of steps to try to keep the stars it has developed on the field exhibiting their extraordinary athletic gifts. But anyone watching football understands some essential truths. Although the modern player is bigger, faster and stronger, the rudiments of the game – blocking and tackling – have not changed and most likely never will. It is a combination, regardless of how thick the rule book gets, that will forever make it impossible to prevent the game’s top stars from being injured. Some days will just be worse than others. Sunday happened to be one of them.