 PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — Lari Lehtonen, an Olympic cross-country skier from Finland, pulled his two sons out of kindergarten a month ago. They were not allowed to attend birthday parties. They were prohibited from crowded indoor spaces. They could have play dates, but only after a call to the friend’s parents. This may sound like a peculiar style of helicopter parenting, but Lehtonen was not worried about his children — he was worried about himself. Specifically, he was worried about catching a cold, and he knew that the more time the lads spent around other children, the more likely they were to become little vectors of disease who could wreck his Olympics. “Most of our friends, they know not to invite our boys if someone in their house is sick,” Lehtonen said. “But I call or I text to make sure.” Cordoning off the children is just one of a few dozen stay-healthy strategies deployed by athletes here at the Olympics. A norovirus outbreak — 139 cases and counting as of Saturday — has dominated the headlines in the early days of these Winter Games. But the rhinovirus, the most ubiquitous cause of the common cold, is the challenger every athlete here has been dreading. Unlike actual rivals, this one is invisible, omnipresent and tireless. Also, there is no beating it. You can only hope that you avoid it. Dodging an enemy that is everywhere and unseen can make people neurotic. Or it can put them in a try-anything frame of mind. Or both. “I used to gargle with salt water every night,” said Sara Studebaker-Hall, a former United States Olympian in the biathlon. “My mom is a nurse, and she said there was research that showed that would help. I was, like, great.” Arturs Darznieks, a Latvian luger, eats cloves of raw garlic, a habit he swears does not bother his girlfriend. Or his teammates, who have taken to eating cloves of garlic, too. “We are all stinky in the room,” he said after his second test run down the course on Thursday. “But it’s good for your immune system.” Science is not convinced. James Gern, a professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison who has studied immunology, was skeptical of many of the cold-ducking practices used by Olympians. He endorsed the basics, such as sleeping, hand-washing and reducing stress. Eating raw garlic? Maybe it just keeps people at bay, he guessed. The athlete idea he liked the most belonged to Lehtonen, the guy who yanked his children out of kindergarten. “The most efficient spreaders of rhinovirus are kids,” Gern said. “They are totally unhygienic and they need a lot of care. If you live with a 2-year-old who has a cold, just go get yourself a box of tissues.” The inherent problem is that winter is a cold-catching season (and flu, too, especially this year), which means the Winter Games are a more infection-focused affair than their summer counterparts. And even before the recent outbreak of norovirus, the Olympics in Pyeongchang seemed determined to turn everyone into a germaphobe. At Incheon Airport near Seoul, travelers were greeted by a placard about the Madagascar Plague — turn yourself into the quarantine office was the gist — right before walking through a body-heat detector that flags fevers. On the way to the baggage carousel, a female voice on a recorded message offered a lengthy health-related public service announcement that included the word “vomiting.” Koreans walking around with white face masks are not an uncommon sight here; it is hard to tell if they are contagious or fretting about contagion. There are signs all over the Games with instructions for how to cough properly. Into your sleeve, please. Olympians don’t need the pointers. Many are acutely aware that they are especially vulnerable during the Games. There are athletes coming together from all over the world, some bearing viruses, placed in close quarters, eating in huge cafeterias with serve-yourself buffets. “I don’t touch the big spoon unless I’m wearing gloves,” said Johanna Matintalo, another Finnish cross-country skier. Matintalo is proof that any contest with the rhinovirus is a gamble, even for someone who bets with care. She caught a cold a week before the Games began and has suffered a fate that is familiar to her peers: She’s been banished, at least partially. “I have my own apartment,” she said. “I should be with my four teammates, in this apartment with five rooms, but they want to wait to make sure that I’m 100 percent.” The team physician comes and takes a swab from her nose, which is then tested in a piece of equipment that Matintalo enthusiastically described as “very cool.” She predicted she would move back in with roommates in another day or two. The Australian team takes a more pitiless approach. The 20 or so members of the squad who have been deemed medal contenders have been hived off to live in what a spokesman called a “sub site” that puts plenty of distance between them and the lesser members of the team. The fear of colds is spread evenly throughout the Games. It’s prevalent in curling, even among “skips,” whose main job is to stand near the target and shout directions to teammates. Compared with a cross-country skier who has to race for 50 kilometers, this is a day off with a cocktail. But the retired Canadian curler Kevin Martin, who is providing commentary for NBC here, said he was scrupulous about his health because catching a cold while he was competing put his mind in a muddle. “Curling skips are really, really smart and very crafty,” he said. “It’s like a game of chess. You come on to that field of play and you’re not as sharp? Oh boy, you’re in trouble.” Many teams have a doctor whose job is to maximize the odds that athletes can travel and compete in the best possible condition. For American biathletes, that is Randy Wilber, who in January flew from Colorado to Italy, where the team was competing in a World Cup event, to lay out a detailed plan for traveling to Pyeongchang. He offered common sense ideas about jet lag, hygiene, sleep and diet. To some extent, the plan was an end in itself. “Just the fact that you have a plan and you know that it’s been really well thought out by people who’ve worked with hundreds of athletes means you don’t have to worry as much,” said Max Cobb, president of the U.S. Biathlon Association. “That is a stress-reducer.” Less stress, fewer colds. So the trick is to worry about colds just enough to enhance prevention without getting so worried that it leads to illness. The solution for the United States snowboarder Meghan Tierney is to not worry at all. “This might sound weird, but I think the best way to prevent colds is to, like, not try to prevent them,” she said after a team news conference. “If you don’t think you’re going to get sick, you’re not going to get sick.” This is a recently developed hunch. A week and a half ago, Tierney was anxious about catching a cold right before the Olympics and that is precisely what happened. “I’m fine today, but because of that cold I now think I won’t get sick while I’m here.” Is that science talking, or you? “It’s more me,” she said.