 One of the oldest clichés in fantasy football, especially come playoff time, is “start your studs,” or, similarly, “play the guys that got you this far.” In general, this is good advice. But as Week 15 proved, it’s far from foolproof. Heading into Week 15, the top fantasy quarterback was (and still is) Russell Wilson. The top fantasy wide receiver was (and still is) Antonio Brown. In a crucial week — for many leagues, it was the opening round of the fantasy football playoffs — the two combined for 14 fantasy points. Brown’s lack of production was a result of an injury. Wilson was under attack from the Rams’ defense on a windy and rainy field in Seattle. These kinds of disappointments happen all the time in fantasy football, but when it happens during the fantasy football playoffs, it’s a tougher pill to swallow. Yet this is what we signed up for, and we shouldn’t be surprised when we’re on the losing end of bad luck. While one owner might have had Brown, or maybe Bears running back Jordan Howard or Panthers receiver Devin Funchess — other players for which all signs were pointing to big games that did not materialize — that same owner’s opponent might have pulled off the unlikeliest of upsets and is full of hope heading into a Week 16 championship matchup. It’s true that Week 15 was a harsh reminder for some that luck is the strongest factor of all when it comes to fantasy football success. Still, that small percentage that remains under our control, the part where statistical analysis and common sense guide our decisions, can often be a deciding factor in fantasy football competition. Regardless, it’s all we have to combat whatever ends up happening on the field, which is so far removed from anything mathematics can attempt to predict. With all of that said, let’s try again in Week 16 to get enough of an edge to counter whatever the football gods are thinking of unleashing this coming weekend. Dak Prescott (DAL vs. Seahawks) — He has topped 20 fantasy points only once over the last six games (26.6 vs. Giants) and has thrown for just five touchdowns in that time. But if you’ve survived this long with Prescott behind center, there are reasons to be optimistic in Week 16. The Seahawks’ defense is limping to the finish line, having allowed 72 points over the past two games. The Cowboys’ offensive line has injury issues of its own, but left tackle Tyron Smith has a chance to start on Sunday after leaving the last game with a knee injury. Running back Ezekiel Elliott is definitely returning for this game, and Prescott averaged 21.5 fantasy points per game during Elliott’s eight weeks on the field compared with 12.2 over the last six without him. Vegas expects this game to total 47 points, the third highest total of the week. It also helps that both teams need to win to keep their playoff hopes alive. Russell Wilson (SEA at Cowboys) — The other side of this important matchup is Wilson, who is also primed for a bounce-back performance (should you have somehow overcome Week 15’s rainy disaster and advanced). Before Week 15, Wilson had been arguably fantasy football’s most valuable player, scoring, by far, the most fantasy points from Week 7 to 14, and averaging over 25 F.P.P.G. Also consider: Blake Bortles (JAC at 49ers) Dion Lewis (NE vs. Bills) — Many were led to believe that Rex Burkhead was a Patriots back that you could trust most weeks in terms of use and fantasy production (uncharacteristically, given how Coach Bill Belichick likes to use multiple backs). Then, he got hurt. Lewis and Burkhead were coexisting fairly peacefully from a fantasy perspective, with each scoring at least 11 fantasy points in four of the last six games (though Burkhead’s knack for finding the end zone gave him more upside). With Burkhead out, and a very favorable matchup against the Bills on deck, it’s hard not to like his chances. But be aware that Mike Gillislee, who has been a healthy scratch most recent weeks, could become more of a presence. Latavius Murray (MIN at Packers) — The Vikings’ backfield is also crowded, with Murray and Jerick McKinnon splitting time. McKinnon scored nearly 14 fantasy points last weekend, the first time he topped 13 since Week 8. But Murray still outcarried McKinnon, 20-9, and also ended up with more fantasy points (16.4). McKinnon does have added value because of his use in the passing game, but not enough to warrant starting over Murray in standard leagues. Murray has at least 14 points in three of the last five games, and I expect him to be used heavily as the Vikings could very well be running out the second half with a big lead against the Rodgers-less Packers. Also consider: Kenyan Drake (MIA at Chiefs) JuJu Smith-Schuster (PIT at Texans) — With Brown sidelined early in Week 15, it was Smith-Schuster who emerged from the remaining receiving corps with six receptions and 114 yards, despite dealing with a hamstring injury that was supposed to limit him on Sunday. He showed no ill effects and should lead the charge, with some help from Martavis Bryant, against a vulnerable Texans defense allowing the fourth most fantasy points as a team to opposing receivers this season (21.9). Doug Baldwin (SEA at Cowboys) — His worst fantasy performance of the season (0.6 points) coincided with the overall offensive meltdown against the Rams last weekend. There will be no rain or wind in Dallas, and as Russell Wilson gets back on track, I expect Baldwin to as well. He’s matched up with an inexperienced cornerback in Xavier Woods, who has had only 23 targets in his young career. Also consider: Dede Westbrook (JAC at 49ers) Evan Engram (NYG at Cardinals) — He gets enough throws that he is a threat to produce no matter the matchup. He has 113 targets on the season, the second most among all tight ends. His 13 targets last week were a season high. Also consider: Vernon Davis (WAS vs. Broncos) LAC at Jets; LAR at Titans Chris Boswell (PIT at Texans); Phil Dawson (ARI vs. Giants).