 A candidate has already emerged to buy the Carolina Panthers in the aftermath of Jerry Richardson’s sudden move to sell the team after misconduct allegations. It’s Diddy. The rap mogul, born Sean Combs, announced on Sunday night that he wanted to own the team. His short video statement immediately raised eyebrows. The first thing most people noticed was that Diddy was not entirely clear on the name of the team he is interested in, twice calling it the “North Carolina Panthers.” Nevertheless, he said, “I will be the best N.F.L. owner that you can imagine.” Then he plunged right into one of the most contentious issues facing the N.F.L.: the decision of every N.F.L. team not to sign quarterback Colin Kaepernick. Diddy would give him a job with the Panthers. “I will immediately address the Colin Kaepernick situation,” he said, “by putting him in the running for next year’s starting quarterback.” Perhaps to reassure the many fans who aren’t looking to see the current starter Cam Newton replaced, he added, "It’s just competition, baby.” Kaepernick liked the idea, saying he wanted in. Diddy then tackled an issue that almost certainly would be a strength for him: “I will have the best halftime show, the best selection of music,” he said. Almost as an afterthought, he added, “and we’re going to win the Super Bowl.” In several Tweets, Diddy made the point that he would become the only African-American owner in the league. Diddy is a man of many interests. As he raps: “My repertoire is ménage à trois and exotic cars. Chillin’ with the hottest stars.” Now football is set to join the list. Regardless of Diddy’s money and fame, and his evident interest, he would seem like a long shot to be the winning bidder. Certainly, jumping into the Kaepernick controversy won't endear him to the other owners, who want that whole issue to go away. Diddy is a wealthy man, with a net worth estimated by Forbes at over $800 million. But the team could easily go for much more than that; it is estimated at a value of $2.3 billion, and teams often sell for more than their estimated worth. If Diddy needs some financial help, there is at least one person who would be happy to get involved. Stephen Curry tweeted, “I want in.” Curry has the financial muscle of a $201 million contract signed in the off-season. But the N.F.L. leans toward the single owner, or at least single family, model. A multiple-member ownership group without one dominant owner would not be likely to fly. So far, Diddy is clearly the biggest name to emerge, but maybe other well-known people could be candidates. What might some other notable people have that Diddy does not? More money. While $800 million is a lot of coin, there are plenty of folks with even more. Forbes rates the Amazon supremo, Jeff Bezos, as the world’s richest man, with a staggering $99 billion. Also in the stratosphere are Bill Gates and Warren Buffett. Any of them could buy the Panthers with change found under their couch cushions. Closer ties with the Carolinas. Celebrities from the area could at least be expected to get the team’s name right. Just taking those from Charlotte alone, the list could include Curry, the singer Stephanie Mills, the former football coach Joe Gibbs and the wrestler Ric Flair. (An N.F.L. spokesman did not comment on the possibility of the Nature Boy buying the team, because we did not ask him to.) Better halftime bona fides. As entertaining as a Diddy halftime show would be, several Super Bowl shows received rave reviews. Imagine Bono, Madonna, Bruce Springsteen and Beyoncé as owners. More palatable political views. Many of the people rich enough to own an N.F.L. team are on the rightward side of the political spectrum. And welcoming another conservative owner would feel much more comfortable to them than bringing in a firebrand ready to wade into the Kaepernick dispute. Jumping right out of the 10 richest list: the Koch brothers.