 LILLE, France — Marc Ingla spent almost a year piecing together what was supposed to be one of the most intriguing, most ambitious projects in European soccer. In September 2016, he listened over lunch as Gérard López, a Luxembourg-born tech investor and entrepreneur, outlined his plans for Lille O.S.C., a team of rich history but dwindling prominence in France’s top division, Ligue 1. López wanted Ingla — the marketing director at Barcelona during its golden period in the late 2000s — to oversee the renovation. He would name him chief executive and give him carte blanche to shape the club. Ingla knew “in about five minutes” that he would accept the offer, and he spent the next few months building a back-office dream team. Luis Campos, a Portuguese scout credited as the architect of Monaco’s championship-winning team, joined as technical director. Then, after a long pursuit — and several “colorful dialogues” — Ingla persuaded Marcelo Bielsa, the vastly influential Argentine coach, to take over as manager. “We had several possibilities on our list, but he was always the main name,” Ingla said. The appeal was Bielsa’s avowed belief in young players, his reputation for adventurous soccer and his “credibility.” “Having him here helps to attract players,” Ingla said. By May, López presented Bielsa as the club’s new coach at an extravagant ceremony at Stade Pierre-Mauroy. López wore a bright white shirt, open at the neck. Bielsa dressed down, in a polo shirt, and looked sheepish and shy amid all the fireworks. Over the summer, Campos and Bielsa set to work drafting a slew of talented young players, including a handful from South America. Everything was in place for Aug. 5, the day the French season started. Lille’s first game would take place two days later. Monaco was the champion, but it was Lille that had the look of a coming force; there was an air of anticipation as fans waited to discover precisely what López, Ingla and the rest had built. And then, on the eve of the season, a private plane from Barcelona landed in Paris. When Neymar touched down on French soil to join Paris St.-Germain as the most expensive player in history, it seemed to relegate the rest of Ligue 1 to a mere sideshow. For almost a year, Lille had felt like a club going places. Now, like everyone else in French soccer, it was trapped in a dead end, nothing more than window dressing for a Parisian parade, mannequins for Neymar and, later, Kylian Mbappé, to dance around. Within weeks, all of that pre-season optimism had been extinguished: Lille won just two of its first 11 games. It sits languishing in the relegation places, with Bielsa already under pressure, a seemingly salutary warning that no amount of planning can alter the inevitable. Four points clear at the top of the table, P.S.G. has not hidden its belief that it has outgrown France. At every level of the club, the ambitions are first continental, and then global: When the team’s alternate jersey was revealed in September, the marketing department declared it a uniform for “the conquest of Europe.” Before the team’s Champions League game a few weeks later against Bayern Munich, its fans unfurled a banner reading: “Tomorrow, Europe will be red and blue.” In the aftermath of the Neymar signing, meanwhile, P.S.G.’s president, Nasser al-Khelaifi, highlighted the deal’s worldwide impact: 85 million Brazilians watching his presentation in Paris; his first game being broadcast to 183 countries; his status as “an international superstar, an international brand.” Perhaps the most telling comment, though, came after Mbappé agreed to move to P.S.G. from Monaco, its only realistic domestic rival. The Paris-born teenager wanted, Khelaifi told Britain’s Daily Telegraph, to “defend the French colors in the Champions League.” With Monaco stripped bare, P.S.G. regards domestic success as such a sure thing that it no longer sees itself as a contestant in the French league, but as something grander: an ambassador for it. There are many who are concerned about what that might signify. Some — including Javier Tebas, the president of the Spanish league — have suggested that the wealth of P.S.G.’s Qatari backers gives the club an unfair advantage in the Champions League, and have called for UEFA to intervene. The warnings about the consequences for France have been direr still. P.S.G. is so much richer, so much stronger, than all of its domestic rivals that many worry that Ligue 1 will morph into a mere procession, a fait accompli, its interest and relevance dwindling as a result. “If you stack the best players in one team with supernatural money, you do not have any more competition,” Jean-Michel Aulas, the president of Olympique Lyon, told the broadcaster RMC in August. Toni Kroos, the Germany midfielder, offered an insight into the way the world’s finest players view it in November, when he suggested of Ligue 1 that “you go to P.S.G. or not at all.” Ingla, given all the work he put into transforming Lille, might be expected to share that view, to worry that the rest of the country’s teams will wither in P.S.G.’s long shadow. He does not. Instead, he is adamant that Neymar’s arrival, and P.S.G.’s rise into a global superpower, can act as an “accelerator” for the rest of the league. “It is great that he is here,” he said. “It will bring better television audiences, and new incomes for French clubs.” Ligue 1 has, for some time, been seen as the poor relation among Europe’s big five leagues, trailing England, Germany, Spain and Italy in terms of television revenue and audiences. Next year, its four rivals all will be guaranteed four spots in the Champions League group stage. France will remain locked on three. If the fear outside France is that P.S.G.’s dominance will calcify that impression, inside it, the view is very different. López is not the only new investor in French soccer: Frank McCourt, the former owner of baseball’s Los Angeles Dodgers, bought Olympique Marseille, historically the country’s biggest club, last year. O.G.C. Nice is owned by a Chinese-American consortium, while Monaco has long been bankrolled by the Russian petrochemical billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev. “There are interesting times ahead,” Vadim Vasilyev, the vice president of the Monaco club, said this year, long before Neymar descended and Mbappé headed north. “We feel French football may be about to get a second wind.” The signs, certainly, are promising. Ingla describes France as “the Brazil of Europe,” thanks to its apparently bottomless pool of talented young players. “It is able to consolidate talent not just from France, but from West Africa and the Maghreb,” he said. “That is a pool of 400 million people. It is pretty unique.” Vasilyev, meanwhile, pointed at the “fantastic stadiums at Nice, Lille, Bordeaux, Marseille, Lyon, St. Etienne and Paris, all of them renovated for Euro 2016.” “The infrastructure is fantastic,” he said. “France is in a good place.” In a certain light, Lille’s struggles emphasize that: Nantes, St.-Étienne and Bordeaux have all been stronger than expected in the early stages of the season. This is more challenging terrain than assumed. The challenge, until now, has always been persuading fans from abroad of that growth. “We have to look at Germany and England in terms of marketing,” said Nice’s president, Jean-Pierre Rivère. “I’m convinced French football is going to grow, but we have a lot of work to do, most notably in China and Asia as a whole.” Others are conscious of the same point. L’Equipe reported in October that Ligue 1 officials were hoping to sell their next round of television rights for a billion euros, but executives in the league argue that kind of revenue will require other changes. “People in Asia would watch P.S.G. against Monaco,” Vasilyev said, “but we play at 9 p.m. on a Sunday. How can they watch it? We have to change a lot of things.” Neymar’s arrival, combined with P.S.G.’s boundless ambition, could be the engine that drives that change, said Pierre Rondeau, a professor of economics at the Sports Management School in Paris. “We are expecting another important increase in the value of Ligue 1’s international television rights next year,” he said. “It is thanks to the interest in P.S.G., but it is good for all the clubs.” That many will tune in only to watch Neymar and Mbappé is irrelevant, he said; few are complaining, after all, that the “stadiums are full” when P.S.G. plays away from home, packed with fans keen for a glimpse of the all-star team in their hometown. “In England, maybe there is a culture of seeing many teams challenge, but our sporting culture is different in France,” Rondeau said, arguing there is no objection to the presence of one dominant force. “People here would much rather see spectacle than suspense,” he added. It is a line of thinking that has a precursor elsewhere. In Germany, Bayern Munich’s Bundesliga rivals do not see its success as a juggernaut crushing their expectations, but rather as a bandwagon to be followed. The sudden, international interest in watching P.S.G. suggests that logic has some merit: Great players, great teams, sell as much as great games. That was part of the reason P.S.G. signed Neymar, and it is why many of the club’s putative rivals welcomed him. He is a bright enough star to cast a little light wherever he goes. In the eyes of some of P.S.G.’s rivals, he does not herald the end of French domestic soccer, but the start of a new era. “Neymar will get all of the headphone and underwear endorsement deals,” Ingla said. “But football is a collective thing. He still needs a lineup to play in, and a league to shine in.”