 It has been proven time and again that football is, as Vince Lombardi said, a game of inches. Teams win or lose based on the smallest of distances. A deep pass glances off a receiver’s fingertips. One or two links of a chain force a team to punt instead of keeping the ball. But football is also a game of speed. And the measurement of that speed can help us understand why that deep pass wasn’t caught. Or why that running back was tackled two chain links short of the first down.  Thanks to computer chips inserted into N.F.L. players’ shoulder pads, we can measure and analyze the speed at which the game is played. The data, provided here by Sportradar, is used by teams to help make personnel decisions, scout opponents and even call plays. It also helps separate players who have “game speed” from those who merely run fast at the N.F.L. Combine. “Combine speed is overrated,” said Tavon Austin, the Los Angeles Rams’ speedy receiver. “It might give you a good look to see what you can run in a straight line, but football’s not played in a straight line.” At the 2017 combine, 53 players ran the 40-yard dash faster than Louisiana State’s Leonard Fournette (4.51 seconds). Ten running backs were faster, and wide receiver John Ross set the combine record at 4.22. But it’s Fournette, the 240-pound bruiser, who has actually clocked the N.F.L.’s fastest speed on offense this season, according to Sportradar. Against the Pittsburgh Steelers in Week 5, Fournette, the Jacksonville Jaguars’ first-round pick, showed why game speed is more important than combine speed. With the Steelers stacking the right side of the line of scrimmage, Fournette found a hole on the left side and broke through to the open field. From there, it was a foot race against Steelers safety Sean Davis (4.46 in the 40-yard dash), who was closing fast from the right side. But Fournette found an extra gear, reaching a top speed of 22.05 m.p.h. to pull away and score a 90-yard touchdown. (For comparison, Usain Bolt hit 27.8 m.p.h. when he broke the world record in the 100-meter dash at the 2009 world championships. He wasn’t wearing football gear, of course, or running on grass.)  Davis topped out at 21.06 m.p.h. in pursuit.  Fournette, who said he had never been caught from behind in the open field, believes combine time is not a fair indication of a player’s true speed. “I was 240 and ran a 4.51,” Fournette said, referring to his weight. “There’s guys who ran 4.4s or whatever else and they’re getting caught from behind in a game. Football speed and track speed is a big difference, man.” Other top speeds on offense: Todd Gurley, Rams (21.98 m.p.h.); Fournette, again (21.76); Marquise Goodwin, 49ers (21.68); and Tyreek Hill, Chiefs (21.64).  In Week 11 against the Dallas Cowboys, the Philadelphia Eagles’ newly acquired running back Jay Ajayi broke free on a run similar to Fournette’s, with nothing but open field in front of him. Ajayi, who reached a top speed of 20.41 m.p.h. on the play, was caught from behind by Cowboys safety Byron Jones, who ran 22.11 m.p.h. in pursuit, according to Sportradar. Jones proves that, sometimes, track speed translates into game speed. He didn’t run the 40-yard dash at the 2015 combine, but was timed at 4.36 during UConn’s pro day. Many players agree that the thrill of the chase provides an extra boost. Might a running back move just a little bit faster knowing that 11 men were trying to smash him to the ground? “Oh, absolutely,” said the Jets’ Elijah McGuire, who had the fourth-fastest speed for a running back this season (21.17 m.p.h.) “When people are chasing me, I think of it as a dog is behind me. So I don’t want to get caught. That’s just my mind-set when a defender’s chasing me.” Other top speeds on defense: Malcolm Butler, Patriots (22.07); Johnson Bademosi, Patriots (21.72); Devin McCourty, Patriots (21.66); and David Amerson, Raiders (21.62). The majority of N.F.L. players are fast — really fast. So the top speed of the fastest running back is only slightly better than the top speed of the fastest defensive lineman. If the fastest players at each position were able to race 100 yards at their top recorded speed, here’s how they would finish, according to Sportradar. Seattle Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson’s top speed of 20.14 m.p.h. is slightly faster than Cam Newton’s 20.08. But in a twist, Wilson reached that speed playing some defense — chasing down Rams safety John Johnson III after an interception to save a touchdown. After the game, Wilson said the tackle “took me back to my high school days when I used to play corner.”  Likewise, Browns receiver Ricardo Louis hit 21.88 m.p.h. chasing Houston’s Johnathan Joseph after an interception in Week 6. Louis didn’t have enough room to catch Joseph, who scored on the play. The former Raiders owner Al Davis was obsessed with speed. Davis made it his mission to draft or trade for as many fast wide receivers as possible, including Cliff Branch; Raghib Ismail, who was known as Rocket; Willie Gault; Darrius Heyward-Bey; and Jacoby Ford.  Davis, who died in 2011, would probably hate the current version of the Raiders. As a receiving group, the Raiders are the second slowest in the N.F.L., according to Sportradar. If we look at every pass play in the N.F.L. this season through Week 16, and then average the top speed of each receiver across all of those plays, the Rams have the fastest group with an average of 13.32 m.p.h. The Raiders, at 11.96, are slower than every other team except for the Packers, who are more than a mile and a half per hour slower than the Rams at 11.74 m.p.h.  Quite often, a team’s fastest player is the “gunner” on special teams. A gunner’s job on punt and kickoff coverage is to run down the sideline very quickly in an attempt to tackle the returner (while eluding the opposing team’s gunner). Many of the top speeds on special teams this season were negated by penalties, but the Texans’ Chris Thompson (22.64 m.p.h.) and the Falcons’ Marvin Hall (22.47) were the fastest.