 Sixth-seeded Oregon State, led by Marie Gulich and Kat Tudor, shot 58 percent in the second half en route to a 72-67 upset of second-seeded Baylor on Friday night in Lexington, Ky. Two years after upsetting Baylor in the round of eight, Oregon State (26-7) followed up with a steady performance that ended the Lady Bears’ 30-game winning streak. The Beavers had to withstand nine consecutive points by Alexis Morris that got the Lady Bears (33-2) to 69-67 with 42 seconds remaining before Katie McWilliams’ left-corner 3-point shot provided a five-point edge. Morris missed two 3-point shots and Natalie Chou missed another in the final 10 seconds for Baylor, which shot just 39 percent and was edged 38-37 on the glass. Gulich, who scored 26 points, made 10 of 17 from the field and had nine rebounds for Oregon State, which won for the 10 time in 11 contests. Tudor, with 16 points, was 5 of 10 shooting and 4 of 8 from long range as the Beavers made 9 of their 20 3-point shot attempts. Kalani Brown had 19 points and 10 rebounds for Baylor, which took its first loss since falling 68-62 at U.C.L.A. in November. The Beavers weren’t intimidated by Baylor’s winning streak or size, working around the latter with crisp passing and controlling the boards throughout. Gulich thrived in both cases, hitting midrange shots. Perimeter shooting was the difference, with Tudor and Corosdale combining for seven 3-pointers on 13 attempts. McWilliams’ late 3-point shot was the difference. Just as the Lady Bears seemed to find their rhythm with Brown, they steadily fell apart after halftime and never found consistency. Making just 3 of 17 from long range didn’t help, but being outrebounded after entering with a plus-26.5 margin was the biggest shortcoming for a team that had been dominant since early November. U.C.L.A. 84, TEXAS 75 Jordin Canada scored 22 points and took control of the game in the fourth quarter, leading second-seeded U.C.L.A. past Texas to avenge a round of 16 loss to the Longhorns two years ago. Canada scored seven straight for the Bruins at one point, then contributed to every crucial play down the stretch. Monique Billings added 17 points and Kennedy Burke had 15 for the Bruins (27-7), who finally made it to the round of 8 after falling a game short the past two seasons. They will face top-seeded Mississippi State on Sunday. Ariel Atkins had 20 points and Jatarie White had 17 for the third-seeded Longhorns (28-7), who kept falling into deep holes, slowly digging their way out, and then letting U.C.L.A. pull away again. Texas made one last charge when it got back-to-back 3-point shots from Atkins and Alecia Sutton to make the score 76-72 with less than two minutes left. But Burke answered with a layup for U.C.L.A., and Canada’s jump shot with just under a minute to go helped put the game away in Kansas City, Mo. MISSISSIPPI ST. 71, N.C. STATE 57 Teaira McCowan had 24 points and 15 rebounds and Victoria Vivians added 14 points as top-seeded Mississippi State routed North Carolina State in Kansas City, Mo., to reach the round of 8. Morgan William posted 13 points and Roshunda Johnson, who lost her grandfather earlier in the week, added 12 as the Bulldogs (35-1) broke their school record for wins in a season. They’ll have a chance to add to it Sunday, when they play for a spot in their second consecutive Final Four. Kiara Leslie had 27 points to pace the fourth-seeded Wolfpack (26-9), who led early in the second quarter before coming undone. Foul trouble set in, Mississippi State clamped down defensively and North Carolina State Coach Wes Moore was hit with a technical foul as the Bulldogs pulled away. The Wolfpack also had no answer for McCowan, whose size presented all kinds of problems. The only junior in a senior-dominated starting lineup, she finished 11 of 11 from the field and made both of her foul shots on a night that would have been perfect except for a trio of turnovers. The Bulldogs, who lost to South Carolina in last year’s title game, looked like they would cruise to the doorstep of another Final Four when they roared to a 17-7 lead in the first quarter. North Carolina State leaned on its defense, and one of the best rebounding margins in the nation, to claw back. Leslie’s 3-point shot early in the second quarter gave the Wolfpack a 20-19 advantage. Mississippi State responded with another run, fueled almost entirely by McCowan, its 6-foot-7 star. She easily grabbed rebounds over the smaller Wolfpack, scored a series of layups and wound up with 16 points on 7-for-7 shooting in the first half, as the Bulldogs took a 36-41 lead at halftime. Moore became incensed in the third quarter, when the Wolfpack’s Akela Maize picked up her fourth foul. Official issued a technical foul, then mostly ignored him as Moore continued his diatribe. William made two foul shots and Johnson added a layup, and the Bulldogs eventually pushed their lead to 20 points. LOUISVILLE 86, STANFORD 59 Asia Durr had 24 points and Myisha Hines-Allen added 17 as top-seeded Louisville rolled past Stanford in Lexington, Ky. Arica Carter had 13 points and Jazmine Jones scored 10 for the fourth-seeded Cardinals (35-2), who trailed for just 53 seconds to win their 10th consecutive game and advance to their first regional final since 2014. Louisville thrived offensively, shooting 52 percent and building a lead that reached 27 points with one minute and 24 seconds remaining to finish their third consecutive N.C.A.A. tournament rout. Hines-Allen, who also grabbed five rebounds, made 8 of 15 baskets and surpassed 2,000 career points.