 The estimated $1 billion concussion settlement that the N.F.L. reached with retired players is plagued by deception, causing delays in payments of potentially millions of dollars to hundreds of players, according to court papers the league filed Friday. To fix the problem, the league asked the federal judge overseeing the settlement to appoint a special investigator to stop “widespread fraud infecting” the settlement program, which provides up to $5 million to retired players with serious neurological and cognitive issues. The league’s request followed filings last month by lawyers representing hundreds of players who accused the N.F.L. of deliberately using intimidation and manipulation to deny and delay payments. The plaintiffs’ lawyers noted that an unusually high percentage of claims had been audited, and that the league had appealed a large number of cash awards to players. “The N.F.L. seeks to rig the settlement system,” Gene Locks, a lawyer for the players,  wrote in a recent filing with the court. The dispute over the delays came less than 18 months after retired players were allowed to begin filing claims. It is the latest skirmish between the league and plaintiffs’ lawyers in the landmark settlement, which was supposed to provide support to players. The league’s claims of fraud and deception were first reported by The Wall Street Journal. As of April 9, the settlement administrator had received 1,753 claims from the more than 20,000 retired players who registered. Of those claims, 233 have been approved for more than $228 million, before appeals and deductions. Most of the claims paid thus far were for players with A.L.S., Parkinson’s disease and chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease linked to repeated blows to the head. The N.F.L. said in its filings on Friday, though, that more than 400 claims had been denied because of “unscrupulous doctors and lawyers” who coached players on how to seem more mentally impaired. In some cases, retired players falsely claimed to have dementia. Retired players, the league filings said, “have the right to be upset, but their concerns should be directed at those who sought to take advantage of the generosity of the Settlement Program for personal gain,” not at the league or those administering the claim. The settlement, which was first reached in 2013, has had other problems, including companies that have provided high-interest loans to players who agreed to repay them with money from their settlements. The players have also complained about inconsistent instructions for filing claims, and unnecessary demands for paperwork and medical records.