 Bob Bowman, a powerful Major League Baseball executive credited with generating extraordinary revenue for the league, was forced out by baseball’s commissioner because of a pattern of inappropriate behavior going back at least 10 years, according to The Wall Street Journal. Accusations against Bowman included shoving a team executive, having escorts at a work party, berating employees and having relationships with subordinates. Baseball officials — including the former commissioner Bud Selig — were aware of complaints about Bowman but did not discipline him, The Journal reported. Major League Baseball announced last month that Bowman would step down at the end of the year when his contract expired. Neither the league nor Bowman explained why he was leaving. The final straw for the current commissioner, Rob Manfred, came in October, when Bowman verbally abused a co-worker, The Journal reported. “I would say that [the October] incident was the culmination of a variety of issues that had gone on over a period of time, and it precipitated a conversation in which Bob and I agreed that the best thing for him to do was to leave,” Manfred told The Journal. Manfred did not say why Bowman was allowed to complete his contract. When reached on Thursday, Bowman declined to comment on the report. In a statement to The Journal, Bowman apologized to his “family, friends and business colleagues,” and said: “This inappropriate behavior reflects my personal flaws and not someone else’s. This behavior and my personal behavior were wrong.” Bowman joined Major League Baseball in 2000 to run what would be called Major League Baseball Advanced Media, or Bam. Bam created a streaming service to broadcast the league’s games. It also ran each team’s website. It was remarkably profitable. Seventy-five percent of a spinoff company, BamTech, was sold for $2.58 billion. Bam’s headquarters were established in Chelsea, apart from the league office on Park Avenue. That distance, and Bowman’s ability to deliver enormous profits for the league and its team owners, apparently enabled the executive to operate with little scrutiny from league officials.