 MELBOURNE, Australia — The injuries continued for the elite of men’s tennis on Tuesday, as top-ranked Rafael Nadal retired down by 0-2 in the fifth set of his Australian Open quarterfinal with Marin Cilic. Nadal took a two-set-to-one lead after winning a third-set tiebreaker in typically combative fashion, pumping both arms and shouting after completing the task. But down by 1-4 in the fourth set, he took a medical timeout and was treated on court while lying on his back. The trainer Per Bastholt worked on Nadal’s upper right leg. At one point, Nadal placed a towel over his face as he grimaced in pain. He returned to the court and, after losing the fourth set, began hobbling between points as Cilic, the powerful sixth-seeded Croatian who played boldly throughout the match, continued to take big and often effective risks with his groundstrokes. Nadal was restricted in his movement but did what he could for the next two games. After Cilic hit a forehand passing shot winner to break his serve in the second game of the final set, Nadal took off his headband, walked to the other side of the net and informed the chair umpire Eva Asderaki-Moore and Cilic that he was retiring with Cilic leading by 3-6, 6-3, 6-7 (5), 6-2, 2-0. Nadal’s team announced on Wednesday that a magnetic resonance imaging exam indicated that he had strained the iliopsoas, an inner hip muscle, on his right side. Nadal still plans to follow his planned schedule, his team said, by playing a hardcourt event in Acapulco, Mexico, which begins on Feb. 26, followed by events in Indian Wells and Miami. That would give Nadal more than a month to recover (he already had announced he would not play in the Davis Cup next week when Spain faces Britain). In the semifinals, Cilic will face Kyle Edmund, an unseeded surprise from Britain who upset the No. 3 seed Grigor Dimitrov, 6-4, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4, earlier in the day in Rod Laver Arena. It has been a tournament of big surprises. In her first Australian Open, the unseeded Elise Mertens of Belgium has reached the semifinals in women’s singles. In his first Australian Open, 97th-ranked American Tennys Sandgren has reached the quarterfinals in men’s singles. Nadal’s retirement means there will be no rematch with Roger Federer in this year’s final. Federer beat Nadal in a five-set thriller in 2017 to win the Australian Open, but Federer, who will face Tomas Berdych in the quarterfinals on Wednesday, is now the only member of the so-called Big Five who is still in contention at Melbourne Park. The years of competing at the highest level are taking their toll on that elite group. Andy Murray, 30, underwent hip surgery this month in Australia after withdrawing from this tournament. Novak Djokovic and Stan Wawrinka managed to play after taking six-month breaks from competition because of injuries, but they were diminished in Melbourne. Wawrinka, returning from knee surgery at age 32, lost in the second round to Sandgren. In a fourth-round loss to the 21-year-old South Korean Hyeon Chung, Djokovic, now 30, was frequently wincing in pain, his right elbow still not sufficiently healed after his extended break. Djokovic has acknowledged that elbow surgery is a possibility. Sandgren and Chung will play each other for a spot in the semifinals on Wednesday. Nadal expressed concern about the series of injuries to leading players in the last year. “It’s not the right moment to say for me, but somebody who is running the tour should think a little bit about what’s going on,” he said. “Too many people getting injured.” Nadal, 31, said tennis authorities need to think about the long-term health of the players. “There is life after tennis, so I don’t know if we keep playing in these very, very hard surfaces, what is going to happen in the future with our lives,” he said. Throughout Nadal’s remarkable career, as he has won 16 Grand Slam singles titles and two Olympic gold medals, he has often lobbied for more tournaments to be played on natural surfaces like grass and clay — his best surface. Nadal has a spectacular but punishing playing style, full of abrupt changes of direction as he covers court like few men in the long history of tennis. When he was part of the ATP Player Council, he pushed unsuccessfully to base the ranking system on two years of results instead of one. In an interview in September, he complained that the top players had mandatory tournament commitments that stretched from January to November, although veteran players become exempt from some mandatory events as they accrue years of service. Chris Kermode, the executive chairman and president of the ATP, has said that the tour has conducted research that shows the overall injury rate is not climbing for all players but only for the elite, which could be explained by the fact that much of that group is aging. Federer, the oldest of the Big Five by far at age 36, has long argued that it is important to take long breaks within the season. And though Cilic, 29, was sympathetic to Nadal’s injury, he was not ready to ring the alarm bells as loudly. “In the end, it’s on all of us to try to take care of our bodies, to try to pick the right schedule, to listen to our body, how it feels,” said Cilic, the 2014 United States Open champion and the only man outside the Big Five to win a Grand Slam singles title since the beginning of 2010. Nadal had a triumphant 2017 season, winning his 10th French Open and third United States Open. But his knee troubles returned by season’s end, forcing him to withdraw from the Paris Masters and depart the ATP World Tour Finals after one match. Recovery was slower than Nadal hoped or expected, and at the start of 2018 he withdrew from a planned exhibition event in Abu Dhabi and an official tournament in Brisbane, Australia. This was the first time Nadal had arrived at the Australian Open without playing a warm-up event, but he successfully navigated the first week, dropping just one set, to Diego Schwartzman in the fourth round. “I worked hard to be here,” Nadal said. “We did all the things that we believed were the right things to do to be ready. I think I was ready. I was playing O.K.” But his body — his strength and his weakness — began to break down again in the third set Tuesday. “Start to feel the muscle a little bit tired in the third, but playing normal, no limits, no limitation,” Nadal said. “Then in the fourth at one movement, one drop shot I think, I felt something. At that moment, I thought something happened, but I didn’t realize how bad.” It would soon become clear, and the capacity crowd in Laver Arena began to groan and gasp as they watched him hobble and miss routine shots. “You never want to accept it. You want to wait and see if something happens that helps it go away and get better,” said Nadal, who took anti-inflammatory medication during the match. “I was waiting to see if that had any effect and improved anything. But I couldn’t move, and without being able to move, I’m not going to win. I couldn’t keep going because I was totally lame, and I didn’t know either if I continued like that whether I would do more damage.” Injuries have spoiled Nadal’s chances at the Australian Open before. He has retired from matches at eight tour events during his career but only two at the Grand Slam level, both at Melbourne Park. (He also withdrew from the 2016 French Open before the third round because of a wrist injury.) In 2010, Nadal stopped his Australian Open quarterfinal against Murray because of a knee problem. In 2011, when Nadal was trying to become the first man since Rod Laver in 1969 to win four straight major singles titles, he sustained a hamstring injury in the opening set of his quarterfinal against his Spanish compatriot David Ferrer and lost in straight sets. In the 2014 final here, Nadal lost to Wawrinka in four sets when hampered by a back problem. Despite his retirement on Tuesday, Nadal will retain the No. 1 ranking after the tournament. But — as with Djokovic — it is unclear when Nadal will be able to play again. “I’m sad because once again I’ve had a problem in my career,” he said. “But in the end, when these things happen, you have to look in the mirror and see all the good things that have happened, too. It’s true that I’ve perhaps had more injuries than most of my competitors, but it’s also true that I’ve won more than nearly all of them.”