 N.B.A. teams have played about 15 percent of their schedules, and certain things are settling down more or less as expected. LeBron James leads in a bunch of categories, and James Harden in a bunch of others. The Warriors probably won’t win 73 games, but they look formidable again. But few, if any, prognosticators saw these 10 things coming: After nine years without a single win in the playoffs, the Pistons looked to be permanently mired in mediocrity without any special reason for hope for the future. But the team is 8-3 to start the season, with wins over the Clippers and Warriors on the road. Andre Drummond is inhaling every rebound as usual, but Tobias Harris, a workaday N.B.A. forward for six seasons, is averaging 20 points to lead the team. Avery Bradley, acquired by trade, provides defensive excellence. Home games this weekend against the Hawks and Heat could give Detroit two more wins. No fooling. Minnesota, which has not made the playoffs since 2004, when Sam Cassell and Latrell Sprewell were still on the team, is 7-4. To be fair, many expected some improvement this season, but maybe to .500, not a game and a half off the Western Conference lead. Karl-Anthony Towns and Andrew Wiggins, two overall No. 1 draft picks, put up good numbers last season, but the result was only a 31-51 team. The new piece this season is Jimmy Butler, from the Bulls, who by all accounts has fit in with the stars to give the Timberwolves what all N.B.A. teams covet, the 1-2-3 punch. A team expected to be quite dismal is 7-4. Their schedule has been fairly weak so far, but they did beat Cleveland and San Antonio. Forward Aaron Gordon is the breakthrough player, averaging 19 points a game and shooting over 50 percent for the first time. Once, Griffin rarely shot from beyond the arc, taking no more than 44 in any season and making no more than 12. Then last year he began to enjoy the occasional trey, shooting 38-for-113, still less than two attempts per game. This season he’s taking five per game, and hitting at a .404 rate, which would also be a career high. Griffin did tip off the vigilant N.B.A. fan before the Clippers’ season started: “I want to be someone who shoots from there confidently, for sure,” Griffin told The Orange County Register. “I don’t necessarily think falling in love with the 3-point shot is a good idea, but shooting it confidently from there is great.” James’s second stint in town consists of three seasons, and three trips to the N.B.A. Finals. But now the Cavs are 5-7 and out of the playoff positions. They boast no blowout wins, but have been on the wrong end of 22 and 19-point losses (to the Pelicans and Knicks!). Yes, they lost Isaiah Thomas, their key off season acquisition. And yes, perhaps they are laying in the weeds to prepare for later-season glory. But the defense has been poor, Kevin Love is having a shaky season, and Derrick Rose may not quite be fitting in the way he was expected to. Still, maybe James will step up his game in the playoffs as he has done so many times. The fifth-year man for the Wizards is averaging career highs across the board: 18 points (up from 13), rebounds, assists, steals and blocks, plus a .571 shooting percentage and .511 from 3 points. He signed a maximum contract over the summer, to many people’s surprise. James told Yahoo Sports that Porter was worth it: “He’s worked on his game extremely well and he’s earned the big paycheck that he got. You can’t give Otto Porter no daylight these days.” Lonzo Ball was the name everyone heard coming out of the draft, thanks to his play at U.C.L.A and his publicity magnet father. But despite being the No. 2 overall pick, he’s off to a slow start, shooting .292 from the floor, although he does lead the Lakers in assists. But what about Kyle Kuzma? Taken with the 27th pick by the Nets out of the University of Utah and dealt the same day to the Lakers, he has exceeded all expectations, scoring 15 points a game and shooting over 50 percent. Throw in second-year man Brandon Ingram, and there is plenty of hope in Los Angeles. Drummond’s free throw percentages the last three season: .386, .355, .389. This season: .638. That includes 14 made free throws (on 16 attempts) against Milwaukee last week, third highest total of the season for any player. Last season Drummond never made more than 7. Drummond told ESPN that he had been working on his free throws: “It’s been an exciting process for me to see the progress that I’ve put in over the years, the time that I’ve spent, countless hours in the gym shooting free throws. Working on mechanics, working on the mental aspect, so to see the work that I’ve put in come out to light is exciting that it’s finally here.” We all know the West is where all the good teams are, and the East is Cleveland and some stiffs. Not so far this season. Through Thursday night, it’s just about even, with the East as a whole only one game under .500. It certainly doesn’t help the West that it has the league’s worst team, the Mavericks at 2-10.. Coaches come and go in the N.B.A. But after three games? Hopes were not too high for Phoenix, but three straight losses, two of them by more than 40 points, sent Earl Watson to the unemployment line. Star Eric Bledsoe proceeded to tweet out: “I don’t wanna be here,” leading him to be benched, fined and put on the trading block. The Suns won four of five under new coach Jay Triano, but have since lost four straight, and few expect much better to come.