 WINNIPEG, Manitoba — David Perron scored 3 minutes 57 seconds into overtime to lead Vegas past the Winnipeg Jets, 3-2, on Thursday night for the Golden Knights’ 34th victory, the most by an N.H.L. expansion team in its debut season. The Jets had the puck rolling in the crease three times in the extra period but couldn’t get it into the net. Perron then fired a high shot past Connor Hellebuyck to win it. Winnipeg’s Kyle Connor had tied it with a high shot to Marc-Andre Fleury’s glove side with 2:36 left in the third period. Joel Armia also had a goal and one assist for Winnipeg. Hellebuyck made 28 saves for the Jets (30-13-9), who were trying to set a franchise record with their eighth straight home win. Vegas exceeded the previous expansion team record of 33 wins, achieved by both Anaheim and Florida in the 1993-94 season. Fleury stopped 24 shots for Vegas (34-12-4). It was his 389th win, putting him into a tie for 13th among N.H.L. goaltenders. Reilly Smith had a short-handed goal and Erik Haula scored a controversial goal on the power play for Vegas. Haula’s go-ahead goal came with 1:30 left in the second period. Golden Knights forward James Neal was in front of Winnipeg’s net and broke his stick with a swing to Hellebuyck’s mask. The puck was under the netminder and Haula reached in his stick from the other side of the crease and knocked it in. The crowd at Bell MTS Place started screaming, and Winnipeg Coach Paul Maurice challenged for goaltender interference, but a review upheld the goal. The N.H.L. Situation Room released an explanation stating no infraction had occurred. Winnipeg led 1-0 after the first period, thanks to a gaffe by Fleury. The veteran goalie went behind the net to get the puck, but the Jets’ Matt Hendricks stole it and passed it out to Armia, who was in front of the empty net to score his 10th of the season. Winnipeg got its second power play of the game midway through the second, but the visitors’ pressuring penalty kill led to Smith’s tying goal. Smith stole the puck from Jets captain Blake Wheeler inside Winnipeg’s blue line and beat Hellebuyck with a high shot on the breakaway at 12:10. Haula’s goal came during the visitors’ first power play of the game. The goal extended Haula’s point streak to seven games, with four goals and five assists. Connor scored his 17th goal with 2:36 remaining on a pass from the boards by Armia.