 PHILADELPHIA — Practice felt different for the 76ers on Tuesday afternoon. Hours removed from their first loss in more than a month, they gathered to refocus, to watch game film and to study the ways in which Professor Dwyane Wade of the Miami Heat had educated them the night before. “That feeling of losing, we haven’t felt in a while,” Sixers Coach Brett Brown said. “It’s not a great feeling. You don’t really sleep, and you think, ‘What do you want to do?’ Your mood changes. The team’s mood changed, and it should.” This was the immediate fallout from the Heat’s 113-103 victory on Monday night that evened their first-round playoff series at one game apiece, with Game 3 scheduled for Thursday in Miami. Philadelphia had won 17 straight games, a streak that included the final weeks of the N.B.A.’s regular season and a 27-point victory in Game 1. The 76ers are still a popular pick to advance deep in the postseason, especially if they benefit from the seemingly imminent return of Joel Embiid, their star center who has been sidelined since March 28 when he broke a bone in his face and sustained a concussion. Embiid, using some colorful language, posted on Instagram after Monday’s loss that he was tired of being “babied.” Brown did not rule him out for Game 3. “He just wants to play basketball,” Brown said. “He wants to be with his team. He wants to play in front of the fans, and he wants to see this through. And when he’s not able to do that, he gets frustrated, and I respect his frustration. It’s borne out of competitiveness. It’s borne out of wanting to be with his team.” But the Heat made changes for Game 2 that changed the tenor of the series. They ramped up their defensive pressure along the 3-point line. They played with a brand of physicality that Brown described as a new experience for his young players, many of whom are wading into the choppy waters of the playoffs for the first time. And the Heat turned to Wade, back in South Beach for the twilight of his career. On Monday, in his 174th career playoff game, he collected 28 points and 7 rebounds in 26 minutes. “There was a rhythm and a calmness to his game,” Brown said. Wade, beyond his prime at age 36, comes off the bench now. Coach Erik Spoelstra limits his minutes. These are necessary concessions to ensure that his limbs remain intact, that he does not crumble into a fine dust. But Wade is still capable of revving up his basketball time machine, still capable of rescuing his teammates, still capable of roasting defenders. “To be able to hush a whole crowd — that’s a great feeling,” Wade said after the game. “That’s a feeling that I hope my son feels one day. That’s an amazing feeling.” At the same time, there was a profoundly old-school feel to the way he filleted the 76ers. He relied on a steady diet of midrange jumpers, a shot ridiculed by the league’s growing mass of number-crunching analysts. In the modern N.B.A., the long 2-pointer is about as popular as pleated pants. Only Wade seems capable of making it look fashionable again. For his part, Wade emphasized the importance of experience, of which he has a wealth. He talked about the lessons he had drawn from Game 1, including the various ways that the 76ers had defended him. He talked about sitting in his hotel room the night before Game 2 and pondering how he could help his team. He settled on one theme. “Just to be aggressive,” he said. Wade also talked about the mental calculations he made as Game 2 wore on. Watching from the bench, he noticed one play that the 76ers like to run, with Ben Simmons, the 76ers’ talented first-year guard, bouncing a pass to Dario Saric at the elbow. Wade said he told himself that if the 76ers ran that play late in the game, he would be ready for it. Sure enough, after the 76ers had whittled a 16-point deficit to 2 with just over four minutes left in the fourth quarter, Simmons bounced a pass to Saric at the elbow. Wade, who was defending Ersan Ilyasova in the corner, jumped out to strip Saric and race away for a dunk that destroyed the 76ers’ momentum. For all of Wade’s exploits on offense, Brown assessed that steal as the “defining moment” of the game. Wade likes to use that word, too: moment. At this stage of his career, as his familiar physical gifts fade, he searches for his moments, and he savors them. On Monday, he packed a playoff game full of them. “I’m not always going to be able to do it,” he said, “but for the most part, to be able to come through for your team when they need you to, that feels good. The reason I was brought here was for a game like this.” While the postseason is second-nature to Wade, it is a new adventure for most of the 76ers. Simmons has now appeared in two playoff games. Embiid has yet to make his debut. “There’s value in experiencing something,” said J. J. Redick, one of the few veteran players on the 76ers. “It’s way more important than just talking about something. Now that they’ve experienced it and that we’ve all experienced it as a group, I think we’ll be better off because of it.” Brown said that Jim O’Brien, one of his assistant coaches, had told him something that resonated: Before a playoff series really starts, each team needs to get punched in the mouth. The 76ers landed the first blow. Behind Wade, the Heat responded with a flurry of their own. “So here we go,” Brown said.