 MELBOURNE, Australia — The first two rounds of the Australian Open have let the outsiders in. Tennys Sandgren, ranked 97th, said he watched Stan Wawrinka win the 2016 United States Open final in a bar. “I was having a few beers,” Sandgren said of Wawrinka’s third major win. “I was watching the tennis, thinking: That’s insane — an inhuman level of tennis.” On Thursday, an undaunted Sandgren beat ninth-seeded Wawrinka with some ease, 6-1, 6-2, 6-4. He was able to dominate Wawrinka’s signature backhand with his own, hitting eight winners to Wawrinka’s two. Wawrinka was far from his glimmering best, but Sandgren still had to contain his composure over the best-of-five match against an experienced champion who could have roared back at any point. “Somebody in the stands at 3-5 in the third, yelled out, ‘Keep digging, Stan!’” Sandgren recalled. “He gave a little head nod. I’m like: ‘Uh-oh. Shh! That’s scary. Don’t do that!’ So I hope he gets back there. I’ve tried to dial my emotions down, not get too high, not get too low, try to find that even-keel tennis. That was just in theme with that.” Sandgren made his Grand Slam debut at the French Open last year, and broke into the top 100 for the first time soon after. He had not won a match at a Grand Slam until his first round here on Tuesday. Sandgren next faces another player who was not expected to reach this round: 93rd-ranked Maximilian Marterer of Germany, who had also never won a Grand Slam match before this week. Sandgren said the two exchanged smiles in the elevator as their parallel ascendancies brought them toward their postwin news conferences. “If I don’t ever get another accomplishment, I can at least hang my hat on this one, I think,” Sandgren said of beating Wawrinka to reach the third round. “For me, personally, that’s really cool.” Wawrinka, who had been doubtful to compete at the tournament after having knee surgery only five months ago, found reason to be upbeat as well, despite looking all too mortal compared with the “inhuman” player Sandgren watched on television 16 months ago. “Never easy to feel that way on the court, but I need to be still positive,” Wawrinka said. “I think the last 12 days was more than what I could have dreamed coming here. I really came without thinking I will be able to play the first match. That’s a big step for me.” Sandgren’s celebration after the win was muted, out of respect for the diminished opponent he had just beaten. “I wish him all the best and hoping that he can return back to full form and top, top level,” Sandgren said. “Because we know what that looks like.” Also on Thursday, fifth-seeded Dominic Thiem had to climb out from a two-set deficit against the 190th-ranked American qualifier Denis Kudla, winning, 6-7 (6), 3-6, 6-3, 6-2, 6-3. “I think I had my chances in both sets, so I always knew that if I play well and if I keep it up that I could turn it around,” Thiem said. The ninth-seeded player on the women’s side was also eliminated by an unlikely American: The lucky loser Bernarda Pera, ranked 123rd, beat Johanna Konta, 6-4, 7-5. Pera, who lost in the final round of qualifying before getting into the main draw when Margarita Gasparyan of Russia withdrew, had been looking at flights when she was notified that she was back in the tournament. “I was ready to leave, and now I got a chance,” she said. “I’m glad I’ve used it.” Pera, 23, first moved to the United States at age 16, but recently relocated her training base from New Jersey back to Zadar, Croatia, her hometown. She is again working with her first coach, Lovro Roncevic, who said he first coached Pera when she was a 7-year-old whose baby teeth had just fallen out. Her return to her roots, Roncevic believes, added the stability that has sent her ranking soaring up from outside the top 300 in the last 12 months. “She’s calm now, she’s back in Croatia, back to her basics, and it’s peaceful,” he said. The wins for Sandgren and Pera added to the series of upsets (and near upsets) at this tournament. One day after second-seeded Caroline Wozniacki saved two match points and third-seeded Grigor Dimitrov didn’t escape until 8-6 in the fifth set, there were still more surprises. Third-seeded Garbiñe Muguruza, the reigning Wimbledon champion, lost, 7-6 (1), 6-4, to 88th-ranked Hsieh Su-wei of Taiwan. Muguruza had pulled out of each of her previous two tournaments this year with injury, and Hsieh said she was intent on capitalizing on her potentially limited mobility. “As we all see, she has a little tape on her leg, so I think maybe her movement has a little problem,” Hsieh said. “So I tried to be aggressive.” The five-time Grand Slam champion Maria Sharapova could hardly be considered a clear underdog in any match — save for against her nemesis Serena Williams — but she outdid her ranking of No. 48 in beating 14th-seeded Anastasija Sevastova, 6-1, 7-6 (4). Sharapova, who had lost to Sevastova at the United States Open last year, next faces the resurgent 2016 Australian Open champion, Angelique Kerber, who has not lost a match all year. “I look forward to these matches,” Sharapova said. “I want to be playing against opponents that are former Grand Slam champions. She’s had success here. She’s had success playing out here in these conditions on these courts. I want to see where I am on that level.” Another top player surprised herself by passing a test with flying colors. Top-seeded Simona Halep, who badly rolled her ankle in her first-round win on Tuesday, won with ease on Thursday, beating Eugenie Bouchard, 6-2, 6-2. Halep said she had played “much better than I expected,” given her uncertainty about her ankle. “At the beginning, it was a little more difficult because I was not sure how it’s going to be,” she said. “But after a few games, I just said that I have to be confident in my leg, and everything went pretty well.” The next major court date for Bouchard, who has fallen from the top five to 112th, will come in a very different venue: the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York in Brooklyn. The trial for her lawsuit against the United States Tennis Association, in which she is seeking damages for the concussion she sustained when she slipped and fell at the 2015 United States Open, begins on Feb. 20. “I have no idea what to expect,” Bouchard said of the trial. “I’m actually excited. I’m happy that it’s coming up, and then after, it will be over. Regardless of what happens, it will be resolved, and I can move on.” With 13th-seeded Sam Querrey exiting, 6-4, 7-6 (6), 4-6, 6-2, to Marton Fucsovics on Thursday, only one of the seven American players seeded here reached the third round: 17th-seeded Madison Keys, who started her second-round match against Ekaterina Alexandrova with four aces and never slowed, winning, 6-0, 6-1, in 41 minutes. Keys said the number of upsets in the tournament had led to running jokes in the locker room about the announced change to reduce the number of seeded players to 16 from 32 in order to make matches in the first week of Grand Slam events more intriguing. “More drama, that’s what we need,” Keys said, sarcastically.