 It is a play that will haunt the New Orleans Saints and their fans for a long time. They needed one stop against the Minnesota Vikings. They needed to tackle a defenseless wide receiver in bounds. Do that, and they would be headed to the N.F.C. Championship. But caught up in the moment, a rookie missed a tackle, and it cost his team everything. Here is what went wrong: It was 3rd-and-10 at Minnesota’s 39-yard line. There were 10 seconds remaining, the Vikings had no timeouts, and New Orleans was clinging to a one-point lead. A play of any kind that did not get out of bounds would almost certainly end the game, since the Vikings would not be able to stop the clock in time to try a game-winning field goal. “We knew that all we needed was a field goal,” receiver Adam Thielen said. “Obviously, we knew it was going to be tough because all they had to do was stay back and not give up the big play. I don’t think anybody in the huddle was down. We were just trying to make a play.” As the play, called “Seven Heaven,” unfolded, the Vikings had Adam Thielen, their most consistent receiver, lined up on the left side of the field, while Stefon Diggs, Jarius Wright and Kyle Rudolph were lined up on the right. This caused a matchup nightmare for the New Orleans secondary. P.J. Williams covered Rudolph, Ken Crawley covered Wright, and Marshon Lattimore was on the opposite side of the field covering Thielen. That left safety Marcus Williams dropping back deep to do his best against the speedy Diggs. Case Keenum, in the shotgun, got some time to set up and launched a pass that traveled about 35 yards in the air. Marcus Williams, who had dropped back deep on the play, was seemingly in good position to bring Diggs down in the event of a catch without letting him get out of bounds. But with no defenders behind him, the margin for error was slim. Diggs had to use every bit of his vertical leap to get the ball, exposing himself for a big tackle. Williams, who was likely trying to avoid an interference penalty, made the decision to dive instead of waiting to wrap up Diggs when he landed. Before the ball had even touched Diggs’s hands, Williams lowered his head, led with his shoulder, and launched himself at Diggs’s legs.  “I felt the guy brush past me,” Diggs said after the game, adding, “There was only one guy there. If he slipped, I’m going to try to stay up.” Instead of striking Diggs, Williams sailed under and past him. Diggs caught the ball, and if that was not bad enough, Williams’s momentum carried him into Crawley, who was the last defender in the vicinity of Diggs. The collision sent both defenders sprawling, and Diggs galloped down the sideline. “I was preparing for somebody to contact me so I could get out of bounds but nobody touched me,” Diggs said. “I lost my footing a little bit and then I just tried to gather myself and my hand never let me go. The rest is history.” Diggs came down on his left foot, awkwardly turned around while somehow maintaining his balance, and then was off to the races, with no one on the Saints defense having a prayer of catching him. Williams collapsed on the field after the play, and was reportedly in tears at his locker as he and his teammates tried to make sense of the shocking play that had ended their season. Coach Sean Payton, calling the play “a timing decision,” deflected some of the blame from Williams, saying, “He’d like to have that back, but he’s been a good player for us all year.” Williams was hard on himself after the game, but answered reporters’ questions: “I'm going to take it upon myself to do all that I can to never let that happen again,” he said.