 KILLINGTON, Vt. — In her first three races this season, Mikaela Shiffrin twice came in second and also had a fifth-place finish. Those results were good enough to put Shiffrin atop the overall point standings for the women’s World Cup title, which she won last winter. But in the last few years, the precocious Shiffrin, 22, has won so frequently — 11 times last season — that her results this season had the ski racing world wondering if something was amiss. Shiffrin answered on Sunday with a dominant performance in her specialty, the slalom, to claim her 32nd career World Cup victory by a commanding margin at the Killington resort. Shiffrin’s combined time after two runs was 1 minute 40.91 seconds, 1.64 seconds faster than the second-place finisher, Petra Vlhova of Slovakia. Austria’s Bernadette Schild was third. “I wanted to make a statement today, not to everyone else but to myself,” said Shiffrin, who has won 26 slalom races since she made her World Cup debut two days before her 16th birthday. “It wasn’t so much about getting the first win this year as it was about skiing aggressively and getting back a feeling I haven’t had for a long time.” Asked what that feeling was, Shiffrin laughed and said, “Like I’m flying down the hill.” Shiffrin’s victory over Vlhova was also significant because Vlhova had defeated Shiffrin in each of their last two meetings in slalom, with Shiffrin second both times. Fans packed two large grandstands at Killington to see the Vlhova-Shiffrin rematch on Sunday. Shiffrin grew up racing in New England, and with the partisan crowd roaring, she won the race’s first run by an authoritative 1.29 seconds. In the second run, she skied a bit more prudently but still charged enough to again win convincingly. Shiffrin said she did not expect Vlhova, also 22, to shrink from the competition in future races. “She’s going to be pushing me harder and harder all season long,” Shiffrin said. “It’s going to be a really cool rivalry this season.” Up next for Shiffrin will be her first foray this season into downhill and super-G — the sport’s speed races. Shiffrin has spent most of her career competing in the less risky slalom and giant slalom races. But next weekend, Shiffrin plans to enter two downhill races and a super-G at the Lake Louise resort in Canada.