 The Los Angeles Angels arrived in Kansas City this weekend leading the major leagues in runs scored, hits, home runs and total bases. They were the first team in the American League to reach 10 victories. “It’s too early to draw conclusions,” said their general manager, Billy Eppler, though he had to concede the obvious. “It beats some of the other outcomes. But we’re just trying to stay beholden to our process, that’s it.” The Angels’ process has been the most scrutinized in baseball this season, at least in how it relates to Shohei Ohtani, the rookie from Japan who has starred at the plate and on the mound. The Angels have pitched Ohtani only on Sundays, with his third start scheduled against the Royals at Kauffman Stadium. He has made several starts as the designated hitter, but hasn’t been a hitter in the games before, when, or after he pitches. As a two-way force, Ohtani is trying to do something no player has done in almost a century. That gives the Angels no clear template for how to use him, and they are choosing a cautious approach. Ohtani’s early success — three home runs in his first three games as a hitter, victories in his first two games as a pitcher — has not tempted them to use him more often. “The plan and the processes behind it is all we have,” Eppler said. “That has to be our lighthouse. You just focus on that lighthouse and drive toward that. The results and everything that happens on the field, that’s all fog. Internally, we’re just making sure the well-being of the player is taken care of, that he feels strong, rested and prepared.” On Wednesday, through an interpreter, Ohtani told reporters that he hoped to play more often as the season unfolded. “I talk to the medical staff every day, and they see how I’m doing, my strength level, to see if I can play that day,” he said. “It’s the beginning of the season, so I think they are being pretty careful with me right now. Once the season gets tougher and the schedule gets tougher throughout the summer, hopefully I can make them want to play me more. I would like to play more. If not, that’s what it is. I have to follow what they have to say.” Considering the Angels’ fast start, Eppler and Manager Mike Scioscia have made the right moves so far, though finding enough other starters to accommodate Ohtani’s schedule has been tricky. The team lost J.C. Ramirez, who was 11-10 last season, to Tommy John surgery after two starts. The veteran Matt Shoemaker made one start before going on the disabled list with a forearm strain. But Jaime Barria allowed one hit over five innings to beat Texas in his major league debut on Wednesday, and Garrett Richards and Tyler Skaggs, who have missed most of the last two seasons with injuries, are healthy and pitching well. Ohtani has been overpowering, with 18 strikeouts in 13 innings and just four hits, two walks and three runs allowed. The Angels’ lineup has been relentless, even without Ohtani for most games and with second baseman Ian Kinsler missing two series with groin tightness. The veterans Zack Cozart, who signed as a free agent, and Justin Upton, who re-signed after arriving in a trade last Aug. 31, have helped boost an offense that ranked 22nd in the majors in runs last season despite the presence of the game’s best player, center fielder Mike Trout. “When you have a decent number of new players in the clubhouse, one of the things you’re mindful of within the front office is how quickly can your players connect and jell,” Eppler said. “And it feels like that has happened quicker than I’ve been accustomed to when you’re bringing in players from outside the organization.” Referring to the lineup, Eppler added: “That whole theme of passing the baton, it comes to life when you get that connectivity. If they all feel like they’re contributing, that mind-set will work.” Ohtani is making the splashiest contributions for the Angels. But as the standings show, he is not alone. As president of the Oakland Athletics, David Kaval connects with fans by holding office hours on Tuesdays. He is open to anything. “They can tell me who they want to play third base, they can try to sell me insurance, they can ask for a job,” Kaval said. “It’s a great way to have your finger on the pulse of the fan base and get ideas.” Most fans are not bold enough to ask Kaval to let them into the Coliseum for free. On Tuesday, though, the A’s are doing just that. To mark the 50th anniversary of the franchise’s first game in Oakland, the A’s will offer free admission to their game against the Chicago White Sox. The teams will wear 1968 uniforms, parking will be free, and even the tarps on “Mount Davis” — the distant seats high above the center-field structure built to lure back Al Davis’s Raiders in the 1990s — will be gone.  “We’re expecting an amazing atmosphere,” Kaval said. “It’s going to be a fun showcase of what A’s baseball can be.” Lew Krausse, who started for the A’s in their inaugural Oakland game, will throw the ceremonial first pitch. The A’s lost to Baltimore in their first home opener, 4-1, and managed just two hits — including Tony La Russa’s only hit in the majors between 1963 and 1970. The team’s fortunes improved quickly: 10 home games later, Catfish Hunter threw a perfect game, and the A’s would win three World Series in a row in the 1970s. Another title followed in 1989, with La Russa as manager. While the A’s have reached the playoffs eight times in the 2000s, they have always been hindered by low revenues. Previous ownership was blocked from moving south to San Jose, and now the A’s have submitted a proposal to buy the Coliseum site from the city and county for $137 million. If the offer is accepted, the A’s would have more control over their future ballpark site, though Kaval said the team was also reviewing options for a waterfront location. “These processes in California take a long time,” said Kaval, a former president of the San Jose Earthquakes of Major League Soccer, who opened a $100 million, privately financed stadium in 2015. “You need to keep the process and the energy going every day to make sure you’re making progress.” The A’s have drawn two million fans in a season just once since 2005, while the San Francisco Giants have drawn at least 2.8 million every year since opening their dazzling ballpark in 2000. But the Oakland fans have a feisty spirit that should be on full display Tuesday. “It reminds me of an English Premier League soccer club,” Kaval said. “They’re passionate, they’re knowledgeable, they’re loud. They’re part of the experience.” As a way to thank those fans — for one day, anyway — the team will charge them nothing on their way through the doors. Mike Fiers made his debut for the Detroit Tigers last Sunday, tossing six shutout innings to beat the Chicago White Sox. It was his first game since Sept. 13, when he gave up eight runs in a loss for the Houston Astros. That was the fifth time in eight starts that Fiers, 32, had allowed six runs or more, and the slump cost him his spot on Houston’s postseason roster. Fiers was inactive as the Astros won the World Series, despite leading the team in regular-season innings, with 153⅓. He finished 8-10 with a 5.22 earned run average. “They signed and traded for a bunch of guys, so to make the playoff roster was definitely going to be tough,” Fiers said this spring, adding that while he was disappointed, he could not argue. “You could say they made the right moves because they ended up winning the World Series.” Of course, Fiers will still get a championship ring from the Astros, who designed theirs with 101 diamonds on top to represent their regular-season victories, plus 11 baguette diamonds that represent their postseason wins and form their “H” logo. Fiers said the ring would symbolize more than the World Series he missed. “That ring, it’s all the work you’ve put in to get to that point and accomplish that,” said Fiers, who dislocated his hip and broke four bones in his back in college when he fell asleep while driving and crashed into a guardrail on Florida’s Turnpike, sending his body through the windshield. “Yeah, it was a great year, but I feel like it’s more about overcoming so many obstacles,” he said. “Getting in a car accident, going through college, sitting out years and coming back, finally getting an opportunity to play professional baseball, getting to this level and having success. It’s really everything in one.” In baseball, a midcareer name change often happens when a player is found to have used a false identity, usually to appear younger when signing his first contract. At least five major league pitchers within the last decade — Santiago Casilla, Roberto Hernandez, Carlos Martinez, Juan Carlos Oviedo and Wandy Rodriguez — started their pro careers with different names. Another pitcher has just changed his name, but not because of an investigator’s revelation. Felipe Rivero, the hard-throwing left-handed closer of the Pittsburgh Pirates, legally changed his name to Felipe Vazquez last month. The Pirates made the change to his uniform on Monday. “I want to apologize to all the fans that brought stuff with my name,” Vazquez wrote on Twitter, explaining that it was a long process and he could not announce his decision until the change was official. Vazquez told Bill Brink of The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette that he wanted to have the same name as his sister, Prescilla Vazquez Cosme, who helped with negotiations when he signed a four-year, $22 million contract in January. “My sister and I have been talking,” Vazquez told Brink. “She decided it’s time. If she says something, I just get it done. That’s the way it is.” Vazquez’s name change recalls a similar switch by David Ortiz while playing in the minor leagues. Ortiz, the former Boston Red Sox slugger, was first known as David Arias. His baseball cards from 1997, when he played for the Minnesota Twins, identify him this way. Ortiz’s full name is David Americo Ortiz Arias, with Arias his maternal family name and the name he used in the minors with the Seattle Mariners. He switched his preference to Ortiz in the majors but honored his mother, Angela Rose Arias, who was killed in a car accident in 2002, by pointing to the sky after his home runs. After retiring in 2016, Ortiz started his own wine company and named it Arias in her memory.