 NASHVILLE, Tenn. — A’ja Wilson screamed, waved four fingers in the air and danced in front of the South Carolina pep band. It was an appropriate celebration for an unprecedented achievement. Wilson scored 16 points on Sunday as eighth-ranked South Carolina became the first Southeastern Conference women’s program to win four straight tournament championships, ending the nation’s longest winning streak at 32 games with a 62-51 upset of No. 2 Mississippi State. And Wilson was on the court for each SEC tournament victory. Tennessee, with its 17 tournament titles, twice won three in a row, most recently from 2010 to 2012, but the Lady Vols never made the final with a chance at a four-peat. “It’s a blessing and an honor,” Wilson said with a net around her neck. “The SEC is a great conference and to make history like that, to be a team that’s gone four times in a row to the championship and won it, it’s a great feeling. I really can’t even put into words the feeling I know I have.” The Gamecocks beat Mississippi State yet again with a title on the line. South Carolina beat the Bulldogs last April for the program’s first national championship, and now the Gamecocks (26-6) have their third straight SEC tournament title at Mississippi State’s expense. Mississippi State (32-1) had not lost since that national title game, coming into the SEC tournament final with the Bulldogs’ first regular season championship and hoping that a third try at the tournament title would be the charm. The Bulldogs, the SEC’s best 3-point shooters, struggled outside the arc and couldn’t overcome South Carolina’s dominance in the paint, with Teaira McCowan limited by foul trouble most of the first half. The Gamecocks held Mississippi State to its fewest points all season. “Just wasn’t our day offensively,” Mississippi State Coach Vic Schaefer said. “And it just was really frustrating from an offensive standpoint because it didn’t matter what string we pulled, it just didn’t work.” Tyasha Harris added 14 points for South Carolina, Mikiah Herbert Harrigan had 13 and Bianca Jackson added 11. Victoria Vivians led Mississippi State with 17 points, and Morgan William had 10. McCowan, who came in averaging 18.1 points per game, was limited to 6 points. “Our kids were engaged and locked into the game plan,” South Carolina Coach Dawn Staley said. “They did not want to lose. I think they wanted to create their own history, which was to win four SEC tournament championships. And they were determined to do it.” Wilson came off the bench for the third straight game, checking in with 6 minutes 27 seconds left in the first quarter. Wilson, the three-time SEC player of the year, quickly scored and stole the ball to spark the Gamecocks to 6 quick points and the lead. Herbert Harrigan led the Gamecocks with 11 points. Schaefer kept McCowan on the bench for all but four minutes of the first half with two fouls. Without her in the middle, Mississippi State hit only 1 of 11 shots over all, and none after Jazzmun Holmes’s jumper with 8:21 to go in the quarter. The Gamecocks took advantage with 9 straight points to push their lead out to 12 — the same lead they held Feb. 5 in Starkville before losing 67-53 to the Bulldogs. They led 30-19 at halftime. Mississippi State shot much better in the third quarter but never get closer than 5 with Wilson scoring eight in the quarter. The Bulldogs rallied from a 12-point deficit during their earlier matchup in Starkville to beat South Carolina, 67-53. That day, they outscored South Carolina 28-9 in the fourth quarter. Not with this title on the line. Wilson capped 6 straight points for the Gamecocks to give them a 56-42 lead with 5:34 left — the biggest margin Mississippi State has faced all season. In the fourth, the Gamecocks didn’t let Mississippi State get closer than 8.