 CLEVELAND — On the morning of his first game with the Boston Celtics, Kyrie Irving sat at the center of a scrum of reporters along one of the baselines at Quicken Loans Arena and refused to talk about what everyone wanted him to talk about, specifically his reasons for demanding a trade from the Cleveland Cavaliers over the summer. “Well, guys, going forward, I kind of want to put that to rest,” said Irving, who proceeded to do everything he could to avoid putting it to rest. “I don’t want to pinpoint anything. I’ll never pinpoint anything because it’s not what real grown-ups do. They continue to move on with their life and continue to progress, and that’s what I’m going to continue to do.” As this bit of theater was playing out before the team’s shoot-around Tuesday morning, Gordon Hayward sat by himself a few feet away. He, too, was a few hours from his Celtics debut, but he was stage right, just beyond the spotlight’s glare. It belonged to Irving in his return to Cleveland — and now it will belong to Irving indefinitely. Later that night, in the Celtics’ season opener, against the Cavaliers, Hayward and Irving spent exactly 5 minutes 15 seconds cohabitating the court as new teammates before it all crumbled apart: Hayward grimacing in agony near one of the baskets after an alley-oop gone awry, his left leg fixed at a gruesome angle, his future suddenly uncertain. Hayward, a 27-year-old forward who signed a four-year, $128 million contract to join the Celtics in July, was eventually wheeled off the floor on a stretcher with a dislocated left ankle and fractured left tibia. He left the arena in an ambulance and boarded a flight back to Boston, where he was expected to undergo surgery. The team did not immediately provide a timetable for his rehabilitation, but Coach Brad Stevens said that he was hoping for a “full recovery.” The injury resonated around the league, a reminder of what Steve Kerr, the coach of the Golden State Warriors, described as the fragile nature of the profession. Everything can change in one dribble: a player’s career, a team’s championship aspirations. “We understand that we have to pick ourselves up and get on with the season as best we can until he’s back with us,” said Irving, who finished with 22 points and 10 assists in the Celtics’ 102-99 loss, a much-anticipated game that was rendered fairly meaningless. “We know G is going to be fighting to get back on the court.” The Celtics seemed primed to challenge the Cavaliers in the Eastern Conference this season, and perhaps they still can. But the reality is that so many of their hopes were wrapped up in Hayward, an outstanding shooter who figured to benefit from the attention that Irving draws from defenders. But Hayward’s absence leaves them with depleted depth on the wing. “We were very excited to have him really flourish,” the Celtics’ Al Horford said. “It’s a setback for him. But for us, we have to keep encouraging him. He needs to take his time getting well. And knowing Gordon like I know him, I know that he will refocus and he’ll come back — and hopefully he comes back when he’s ready and it’s the right time.” It is an obvious point, and one that was true even before they lost Hayward, but Irving will have an outsize role in dictating how the Celtics move forward from here. If he was eager to escape LeBron James’s colossal shadow in Cleveland, to forge his own path as one of the N.B.A.’s premier players, Irving has that chance now. He did not want it this way. But the rest of the league will be watching regardless. Irving, 25, was unprepared for that sort of burden — an unfair burden — when he entered the league at age 19. James was busy winning championships with the Miami Heat, and the Cavaliers stumbled along by surrounding Irving with a collection of mismatched parts. In his first three seasons, the Cavaliers had a combined record of 78-152. Everything changed, of course, when James returned to Cleveland: three straight trips to the N.B.A. finals and the franchise’s first championship, in 2016, a title that Irving sealed with a 3-pointer. He flourished alongside James, averaging a career-high 25.2 points a game last season. But for whatever reason — and he has steadfastly rejected public inquiries on the topic — Irving wanted out. Cleveland honored that request by sending him to Boston, which gave up Isaiah Thomas, Jae Crowder and several other pieces to get him. The Celtics overhauled their roster to clear space for Irving and Hayward, a high-octane experiment worth the risk. On Tuesday night, they almost instantly lost half of that tandem, a devastating blow for the Celtics who remained behind to play out the rest of the game. The Cavaliers built a huge lead. Then, in the second half, behind Irving and a supporting cast of promising players, the Celtics made a surge that felt therapeutic. “The young guys we have on this team, they were really energetic,” Irving said. In the closing seconds, Jaylen Brown, a second-year forward, tried to tie the score with a 3-pointer that caromed long. Irving’s heave at the buzzer came up short. But given the dire circumstances, Irving seemed to come away from the game feeling somewhat reassured. Brown, for example, was confident enough to take that shot. “That takes some big guts,” Irving said. Irving delivered that message to Brown after the game, that he had to continue to play without fear. After all, this was a team that had already experienced the worst.