 The Rangers held off the Nashville Predators on Saturday for just their second win in nine games this season. Kevin Hayes scored the eventual game-winning goal and added an assist, and Jimmy Vesey collected his first two points of the season, to help the Rangers snap a five-game winless streak with a 4-2 win at Madison Square Garden. Chris Kreider added a power-play goal and David Desharnais extended his point streak to four games as the Rangers have now collected points in three straight games. “You can do so many good things to try and get confidence, to try and get a good feeling in here, but in the end, it comes down to winning games,” said Rangers goaltender Henrik Lundqvist, who made 23 saves. “We have had a couple of games now where we have been close. It was just a matter of time.” Lundqvist picked up career victory No. 407 to tie Glenn Hall for ninth place on the N.H.L.’s career wins list. Lundqvist also became the 20th goalie to appear in 750 games and, after Tony Esposito with the Chicago Blackhawks and Martin Brodeur with the Devils, only the third to accomplish that feat with one team. Mattias Ekholm and Filip Forsberg scored for Nashville, and Juuse Saros made 11 saves. “We are in the collecting points business,” Predators Coach Peter Laviolette said. “Today we collected zero.” The Rangers, who have struggled in first periods this season by allowing 13 goals, earned a two-goal advantage at the end of the first 20 minutes. The Rangers twice had multi-goal leads for the first time since they beat the Montreal Canadiens at the Garden on Oct. 8. Jesper Fast tallied his first of the season 5 minutes 12 seconds into the game. After killing off three penalties in the first 20 minutes, the Rangers’ power-play unit doubled the lead at 19:34. J. T. Miller slipped out of the corner with control of the puck and fed Chris Kreider in front. Early in the middle period, the Predators cut their deficit in half. Ekholm, a defenseman, skated into the slot all alone and blasted a slap shot past Lundqvist at the 1:44 mark. Then, Forsberg scored his sixth goal of the season — in Nashville’s eighth game — when he deflected a soft Roman Josi wrist shot at 15:30. However, late in the middle period, Hayes danced around defenseman Matt Irwin and beat Saros on the short side with a pretty backhand-forehand maneuver to help the Rangers regain a two-goal advantage. Vesey added an empty-net goal in the final minute to secure the victory for the Rangers. It was his first goal of the season. Also on Saturday, the Rangers traded forward Matt Puempel, an American Hockey League player who appeared in 27 games for the Rangers last season, to Detroit for defenseman Ryan Sproul, who is also in the A.H.L. and who has played 28 N.H.L. games in his career.