 STOKE-ON-TRENT, England — Rain predictably pelted the windshield on the nearly 40-mile journey down the dark motorway back to his home on the outskirts of Manchester, but Geoff Cameron wasn’t about to let a soaking interrupt him. Not after all these years here. Even after playing a full 90 minutes for the second time in three days, and even after the most damaging league defeat in his six seasons as a Stoke City player, Cameron had plenty to say. Over the course of the next hour, after some expletive-laden venting in the wake of a costly 1-0 home loss to Newcastle United, he invited questions on a number of subjects: Stoke’s increasingly dire predicament in the Premier League, his brush with political controversy last year and the challenges of life as an American abroad. Cameron also naturally ruminated on the United States’ ill-fated World Cup qualifying campaign, heading into a summer of unforeseen spectating. A sample: ■ “There’s no doubt in my mind that if Jurgen Klinsmann was still our head coach, we would have qualified for the World Cup.” ■ “People can have their opinions and say I’m a bad player and this and that. Well, I’ve been over here for this long for a reason. So I think I have to be doing something right.” ■ “My goal is to play this game until I’m 40.” ■ “Bruce Arena made decisions that cost us going to the World Cup. And I don’t have a problem saying it, because we had the right group of guys.” ■ “I don’t think Bruce likes my bluntness.” Cameron, 32, knows he has to move on, especially with Stoke firmly plunged into a relegation battle that cost Mark Hughes his job as manager a week into January. But I asked him to spend a little more of the ride discussing the United States’ failure to qualify for the World Cup for the first time since 1986, which Cameron admitted had left “such a bad taste in my mouth.” “Our names will go down as the team that didn’t qualify,” Cameron said. “It’s on us as players, but at the end of the day, I’m convinced if they would have kept Jurgen and not done such a drastic change, I think we would have qualified. I know we would have qualified. Instead we’ve gone backward.” Cameron remains aggrieved that despite his lengthy run in perhaps the world’s best league and a reputation at his club that prompted a BBC Radio Stoke commentator to call him “our Mr. Dependable,” Arena, the United States manager at the time, kept him on the bench for the final two World Cup qualifiers. Cameron was told by Arena, even before the national team convened in October for the two games, that he would not be starting against Panama or Trinidad and Tobago because of concerns about his fitness. But Cameron said he couldn’t understand that reasoning, especially after he logged a full 90 minutes in Stoke’s victory over Southampton on Sept. 30 before reporting to the United States camp. Needing only a draw in Trinidad to secure a spot in Russia, Arena opted for the same attack-heavy formation that had delivered a 4-0 home win over Panama days earlier and kept Cameron, his most experienced and athletic central defender, on the bench against the speedy hosts. As every American fan knows now, those tactics backfired. A rough night for Omar Gonzalez and Matt Besler in central defense and an eventual 2-1 defeat, combined with unexpected victories for Panama and Honduras, consigned the Americans to an embarrassing fifth-place finish out of six teams in the region — leaving Arena with just three wins in eight qualifiers after having replaced Klinsmann in November 2016. “Listen: I hold my hand up — I didn’t play well against Costa Rica,” Cameron said of a 2-0 loss in a qualifier on Sept. 1, in which his poor performance alongside Tim Ream dropped both out of favor for the October games. “I made a mistake; their second goal was my fault. But it was the 88th minute and we were down, 1-nil. I tried to do something to help the team and I got caught out. “But I would have more respect for a coach to say: ‘You know what, Geoff? I don’t fancy you today. I think this is a better lineup.’ I’d say: ‘O.K., no problem, you told me the truth.’ But if you tell me I’m not fit enough, that’s like an insult to me as a professional.” In response, Arena said in a telephone interview: “Could Geoff have been in the starting lineup that day? Yes. But the problem with Geoff throughout 2017, at club and national team level, was inconsistency and some injuries. “Geoff started five games starting in November 2016 through October 2017. Our record was 1-3-1 — that plays a role. I don’t think 2017 was that impressive of a performance for the player. When the stars and the moon and the sun are aligned properly, Geoff is a very good player. They don’t all align properly all the time.” (Cameron did start five games for Arena in that window — four qualifiers and a friendly — but the Americans’ record was 2-1-2 in those games.) In a subsequent appearance two weeks ago at a coaches convention in Philadelphia, Arena asserted that “the chemistry of the group wasn’t right” and mentioned “a couple of bad eggs.” He expressed disappointment that there had been a few players on the national team “that we could never get to.” “You’ll read about one of them in the next day or two in The New York Times,” he told the gathered coaches, implying — without speaking Cameron’s name — that he had been referring to him. In the aftermath of the World Cup qualifying debacle, Arena stepped down, Sunil Gulati announced he would not seek re-election after three terms as the president of U.S. Soccer and Cameron was left to wonder if he would ever play for his country again. But he cannot afford to dwell on any of that now, because Cameron’s club is in peril. There is a new manager to win over — Paul Lambert has replaced Hughes — and Cameron concedes that, to establish himself, “it’s almost like you’re starting from square one again.” The difference between his club and national team status is that Cameron, since his arrival at Stoke in the summer of 2012, has been a near-automatic choice to start when healthy under his two previous managers: Hughes and Tony Pulis. Four days after watching the Trinidad loss from the bench, and after flying more than 8,000 miles back and forth, Cameron was back in Stoke’s starting lineup on Oct. 14 against league-leading Manchester City. Then, after recovering from a late-October concussion that sidelined him for six weeks, Cameron started five games in a span of 15 days, including Hughes’s final three games in charge — at three different positions. “It often upsets Geoff that he gets moved around,” Stoke City goalkeeper Jack Butland said. “But the problem is he’s so versatile.” Martin Smith, the editor of a longtime Stoke City fanzine called The Oatcake who also contributes to coverage of the club in The Stoke Sentinel newspaper, said: “I wouldn’t say he’s anybody’s favorite player, because favorite players are usually the ones who score the goals and things like that. But I genuinely think he’s an appreciated player. You really see the value in Geoff when he isn’t available. When he’s not there, we really notice it.” Stoke conceded a league-worst 50 goals in its first 23 matches to fall to 18th place and is subjected to frequent reminders that in the Premier League’s first 25 seasons, the team with the leakiest defense has been relegated 24 times. But Smith argues that the various injury absences of Cameron (who has missed nine league games) and the club captain Ryan Shawcross (eight) largely account for Stoke’s woes at the back. Stoke surrendered only 23 of those 50 goals with Cameron on the field — 12 of them in two routs against the perennial powerhouses Manchester City and Chelsea. The BBC Radio Stoke broadcaster, Matt Sandoz, who commentates on Stoke’s matches and hosts a radio call-in show after matches called “Praise &amp; Grumble,” said it’s “very rare we get a grumble about Geoff.” “I couldn’t recall the last time,” Sandoz said. “Obviously he’s got his flaws, like any player, but because he’s been so consistent and so reliable, Stoke fans would never flinch to see his name on the team sheet.” The bond between club and player is such that, according to Sandoz, “it would be really strange to see Geoff Cameron playing his football elsewhere.” But Cameron has no desire to relocate before the eventual return he is planning to Major League Soccer, despite news media rumors on the eve of Wednesday’s transfer deadline that multiple Premier League teams had targeted him. He takes pride in his long association with the club and regards the drawn-out transfer saga that landed him there nearly six years ago as destiny. On that drive home from the Newcastle defeat, Cameron revealed that he had agreed to contract terms with Everton before joining Stoke and was poised to team up with his fellow American Tim Howard, only to have M.L.S. block the deal because it wanted more money from Everton than the reported $3 million Stoke had offered to sign Cameron away from the Houston Dynamo. “Timmy called me and said, ‘Don’t sign for Stoke, Everton wants you,’ ” Cameron said. “But I’m happy the way it worked out, because I’ve created my own path. It’s cool I’ve been able to make my own name for myself at my own club.” Like many Stoke players, Cameron is willing to endure the near-hourlong commute each way to live in one of the more fashionable sections of the Manchester area. He rents a modern, five-bedroom house; walks his dogs, Duke and Mya, in a nearby field before driving to training every morning; and, as he has gotten older, happily calls himself a homebody who prefers to cook his own meals and spend time with the dogs. He maintains steady contact with friends and family back in the United States but rebuffed questions about his relationship status, saying it was the one topic he prefers to keep private. “When you have time to shut your body down in this game, you have to shut your body down,” Cameron said. “So I’m very regimented in my life. “But I have my dogs, so I don’t really get lonely.” A decade ago, during the 2007-8 season, 12 Americans played at least one game in the Premier League. This season, only four Americans are on league rosters and just three have made it onto the field: Cameron; Newcastle’s DeAndre Yedlin; and Huddersfield’s Danny Williams. When Cameron first arrived in England, several of his countrymen lived within driving distance. Howard was at Everton. Stuart Holden, who had played with Cameron in Houston, was at Bolton. Maurice Edu and Brek Shea soon followed Cameron to Stoke. “On Sundays we would grill out, American-style, and watch NFL Red Zone together,” Holden said. But that support system has frittered away. Howard, Edu and Shea are back in Major League Soccer. Holden is a commentator for Fox Sports. And Cameron has had to learn to look after himself. Cooking has become his “No. 1 hobby,” with pasta Bolognese and chicken in a balsamic reduction ranking as his go-to dishes. On the rare occasion he allows himself a night out, Cameron likes to drop in on Matt &amp; Phred’s jazz club in Manchester’s Northern Quarter once or twice a month. But his free time more typically features a trip to the Altrincham Market food hall — or to a local chiropractor for extra maintenance. Having crossed the five-year threshold in terms of British residency, Cameron also has begun studying for the exams required to secure a British passport. The British mentality, meanwhile, gets more ingrained with each passing season; Cameron, for example, now refuses to wear a long-sleeved jersey or gloves in Stoke’s matches, no matter how grim the weather gets. “I just feel like it’s wrong now,” Cameron said of his on-field fashion choices. “But it’s funny. If I say I miss the sunshine, all the boys will say: ‘Shut up. You’re a Brit now. You love this weather.’ So I’m a Brit when it suits them and I’m a Yank when it doesn’t. I’m in a lose-lose situation all the time.” Butland, who is widely regarded as Stoke’s best player and who is soon headed to the World Cup with England, admitted he and his teammates “like to wind Geoff up.” One subject, though, is off limits. Butland has resisted the urge to needle Cameron about the United States’ qualifying failure. “I didn’t give him stick about the World Cup because I know how disappointed he was,” Butland said. “Maybe in time, but it’s still a touchy subject. He’s made it quite clear how much he’s enjoyed playing for his country and how much America means to him.” After a recent run of nine defeats in 12 league games, Cameron and his Stoke teammates are in the midst of a sudden and steep fall following three ninth-place finishes in Hughes’s first three seasons. Yet for Cameron, it’s merely the latest in a series of challenges. He had to overcome a knee injury as well as his concussion in 2017, with the World Cup elimination and his first dose of unflattering headlines off the field mixed in. Early last year, while still recovering from knee ligament damage, Cameron told Sports Illustrated that unlike several of his national team colleagues, he would support “a temporary pause on immigration for the purpose of evaluating and improving vetting procedures” in response to a travel ban on citizens of seven Muslim-majority nations enacted by President Trump. Ever since those comments, and a tweet during the presidential election in which he called Hillary Clinton a “crook,” Cameron is known to a segment of the American soccer public as the player who makes politically charged statements. His February immigration comments drew a backlash, which Cameron said included death threats via social media, that has gradually curbed his long-held willingness to discuss politics publicly. “Now I just kind of leave it alone,” Cameron said. Pressed about how he feels about the travel ban nearly a year later, Cameron insisted: “I never said I supported a Muslim ban. I said I support a better vetting procedure. And I still do.” As for being branded a Trump supporter, Cameron said: “I’m not like a hard-core Republican. I wasn’t walking around wearing ‘Make America Great Again’ hats. I just couldn’t vote for Hillary — I just didn’t like Hillary as a person or a politician. I tend to side with more Republican or conservative views, but if there was someone that I thought was a better candidate than Trump or Hillary, I would have voted for them hands down. “I still get tweets that say, ‘Geoff’s a good footballer but I hate his politics.’ It hurt me at the beginning, because I was like, ‘This is what people think of me?’ But then I got to the point where I was like: ‘You know what? Screw it.’ These people don’t really know me.” It is an example of the defiance he has tried to adopt from his combative national team teammate Clint Dempsey. Before returning to M.L.S. in August 2013, Dempsey made 218 Premier League appearances, establishing a record for American outfield players that Cameron is now chasing. “You had Timmy, Kasey Keller, Brad Friedel, Brad Guzan — Americans have been known over here for the quality of our keepers,” said Cameron, who has made more than 160 Premier League appearances for Stoke. “But no one really respected us as players. “Clint came over here and changed the game for us. He did it with a chip on his shoulder and he’s given me the encouragement to say, ‘I’m American, so what?’ “You have ups and downs in your career, but you can’t let that define you as a player. I’m not going to let missing the World Cup define me. Obviously it’s a massive disappointment that we didn’t make it, but neither did Wales — and they have a lot of good players.” There is more defiance in Cameron’s voice when he talks about Stoke’s relegation scrap. He has two more seasons left on his contract, and he is determined to spend them at the highest level. “I’m not ready to leave this rain,” Cameron said. “I’m here 10 months out of the year. This is home for me. “I’m comfortable driving on the other side of the road.”