 The score was tied in the bottom of the fifth inning on Thursday night, and the Yankees’ No. 3 hitter laced a ball to right, driving in a run to put the Yankees ahead of the Toronto Blue Jays. The No. 3 hitter, however, was not Giancarlo Stanton, the Yankees’ prized off-season acquisition who had occupied that spot all season, but rather Didi Gregorius, the team’s shortstop. Looking to shake things up for Stanton, who had struggled badly since a dominant performance on opening day, Yankees Manager Aaron Boone moved him from third to fourth in the lineup. It would be hard to declare the move a dramatic success, with Stanton going 1 for 3 with an infield single and a walk, but no matter how the sausage was made, the team walked away with a 4-3 win. Boone played down the lineup change, saying it was partially inspired by Toronto’s starter, Aaron Sanchez, being tough against right-handed batters. But Boone assured reporters that there were no plans to move Stanton even further down the lineup should he continue to struggle. “I’m not ready to move him down-down in the order,” Boone said. “I still want him surrounded by impact guys. You move him down, and then all of a sudden, he’s one good at-bat maybe from getting locked back in, and then all of a sudden, you’re in a situation where it’s a blatant pitch-around and those kinds of things.” Stanton, who had plenty of experience hitting fourth during his eight years with the Miami Marlins, managed to go the entire game without striking out — just the fourth time he has done that in 17 appearances for the Yankees — but Toronto’s pitchers were remarkably aggressive against him. Sanchez went right after Stanton with a mixture of fastballs and changeups — starting an at-bat in the third inning with a 94-mile-per-hour fastball right down the middle that Stanton harmlessly tapped to the shortstop for a one-pitch out. The closest Stanton came to a home run was in the first inning, when he worked an eight-pitch at-bat and hit a rocket to deep left that found its way into Teoscar Hernandez’s glove. But the scattered crowd on a cold night at Yankee Stadium got one later, as Stanton’s fellow titan, Aaron Judge, obliged with some fireworks in the seventh inning, hitting a 394-foot blast to left that provided an insurance run that proved crucial. Before Judge’s blast, the Yankees, who were expected to be a team that heavily relied on home runs, had simply chipped away against Toronto. The first run came on a groundout by Tyler Wade. The second came on a bloop single by Ronald Torreyes that barely found its way over the outstretched glove of Aledmys Diaz at shortstop. The third came on Gregorius’s sharp single. Each of those four runs proved necessary, as a shaky relief outing by David Robertson nearly wasted C.C. Sabathia’s solid return from the disabled list. Sabathia, who had been out with a sore right hip, pitched four and one-third innings, allowing four hits and two runs, neither of which was earned. Chad Green and Dellin Betances combined for two and two-thirds scoreless innings, but Robertson ran into trouble in the 8th, loading the bases with a single and two walks and then allowing a run-scoring single by pinch-hitter Curtis Granderson. But Robertson, known as the Houdini of the Bullpen, lived up to his nickname, getting out of the inning with no further damage. He then handed things over to Aroldis Chapman, who pitched a scoreless ninth to secure the win, which was credited to Green as Sabathia did not complete five innings. If there was a complaint on a day when most things went right for the Yankees, it was a pair of passed balls by Gary Sanchez, the catcher who sometimes struggles to catch. The first was especially costly, as Sanchez was crossed up on a high cutter by Sabathia and as the ball shot away from him, a run scored. Inside Pitch Tommy Kahnle, who has a 6.14 E.R.A. in six appearances as a reliever this season, was placed on the 10-day disabled list with right shoulder tendinitis. Boone said it could be a few weeks before Kahnle is able to return.