 An N.C.A.A. bracket is a frightening thing. All those blank spaces. All those Lipscombs and Wright States and other teams you would struggle to name a single player on. —— Follow our live coverage of March Madness here. —— Fortunately, there is no shortage of experts, self-proclaimed and otherwise, with advice to guide you to all the winners. Here’s a roundup of selections from people in a position to know. • Where to turn first? How about that little-known college basketball tip sheet The New York Times? Marc Tracy and Zach Schonbrun have circled a few upsets, notably No. 12 New Mexico State over No. 5 Clemson, No. 13 Marshall over No. 4 Wichita State, No. 11 Loyola-Chicago over No. 6 Miami, No. 10 Providence over No. 7 Texas A&amp;M, and No. 11 San Diego State over No. 6 Houston. While the Times doesn’t actually predict that No. 16 Penn will upset No. 1 Kansas, it says the game is worth watching. • Jay Bilas of ESPN has established himself as one of the most prominent college basketball experts in the country. Oklahoma, who some had seen as a bubble team, was on his mind: Bilas picks a 3 seed, Michigan State, to win it all, as did two other ESPN notables, Dick Vitale and Seth Greenberg, perhaps surprising since M.S.U. will probably have to beat Duke and Kansas just to make the Final Four. Want to know who’s going to win the next big election? Fivethirtyeight.com is a good choice. But its number-crunching is also pretty good at picking sports. The site is cautious in its picks, selecting just three first-round upsets: No. 10 Texas over 7 Nevada, No. 10 Butler over No. 7 Arkansas, and No. 9 Florida State over No. 8 Missouri. It is picking No. 4 Gonzaga to upend No. 1 Xavier in the Final 16. But Five Thirty Eight is known for producing probabilities, not just straight picks. It is worthwhile when constructing your own bracket to know that while No. 1 seed Villanova has a 50 percent chance of making the Final Four, Virginia is at 47 percent, Kansas at 31 and Xavier at only 18. • Alex Kirshner at SB Nation circles four lower-seeded teams and says one or two will pull off the upset. Those are No. 12 Davidson over Kentucky, No. 12 New Mexico State over Clemson, No. 12 Murray State over West Virginia and No. 11 San Diego State over Houston. He also says No. 15 Lipscomb could stun North Carolina: • At Bleacher Report, Kerry Miller ranks all 68 teams in order, from Villanova to North Carolina Central. • More data crunching. Ken Pomeroy is a well-respected college ranker. Like many others, he has Villanova and Virginia at the top of his list. He also has No. 2 Duke over Kansas and No. 2 North Carolina over Xavier. For first round upsets, he likes No. 10 Butler (56 percent chance to win), No. 10 Oklahoma (slightly more than 50 percent) and No. 9 Florida State (51 percent);. • Another computer ranker, Jeff Sagarin, also has Villanova and Virginia 1-2. • Those V teams dominate the selections at the Athletic also, with three of five picking Virginia and two Villanova to win it all. Amazingly, four of the five like No. 12 New Mexico State not only to beat No 5 Clemson, but also No. 4 Auburn and make the Final 16. • Want a winner a little more “off the wall” than Villanova or Virginia? Nick Birdsong at the Sporting News picks No. 1 Villanova, No. 2 Duke and No. 3 Michigan to make the Final Four, and then has No. 4 Arizona beating all of them, thanks to freshman Deandre Ayton. • A roundup of eight selectors assembled by CBS finds three selecting a No. 2 seed, Duke, to win in all and two going for Villanova, with one each for Virginia, North Carolina and Michigan State. Josh Nagel, a SportsLine analyst said: (Nagel also likes No. 11 San Diego State, No. 10 Providence and No. 10 Butler, and says the winner of the Arizona State-Syracuse play-in game will beat No. 6 TCU.) • In Las Vegas, the lines are up, and most books are settling on Villanova as the early favorite. But Duke is favored in the Midwest, not Kansas, and No. 3 Michigan is the top pick in the West, not No. 1 Xavier or No. 2 North Carolina. The better seeds are the favorites pretty much across the board, as you might expect, with just one clear exception. No. 10 Butler is a 1-point pick over No. 7 Arkansas. Believe it or not, some confident folks have already filled in their brackets. Over at Yahoo, these early birds have tabbed a couple of upsets: No. 10 Texas (56 percent of them) and No 10 Butler (54 percent). In later rounds, the group likes No. 2 North Carolina to make the Final Four rather than Xavier. The most popular pick to win it all is Virginia (25 percent) followed by Villanova (17 percent) and then second-seeded Duke, perhaps following the well-known theory “Duke always wins.” The most popular teams at Yahoo, by seed: 1, Virginia, 2. Duke, 3. Michigan State, 4. Arizona, 5. Kentucky 6. Florida, 7. Arkansas, 8. Missouri 9. N.C. State, 10.Texas 11. Loyola Ill., 12. New Mexico State 13. Marshall 14. Stephen F. Austin 15. Georgia State 16. Penn. There are almost as many opinions out there as there are tournament permutations. But only two brackets matter in the end: the one you fill out and the correct one. Hope they match this year — good luck!