 WINNIPEG, Manitoba — On a bone-chilling day this month, as the hometown Blue Bombers of the Canadian Football League practiced for a playoff game against the Edmonton Eskimos, something was noticeably missing: the unmistakable crack of plastic hitting plastic. In September, the league barred players from deliberately slamming into one another during regular-season practices, and while they still wear helmets, they no longer wear shoulder pads and other protective gear in practices. By most standards, the league’s decision, aimed at reducing injuries like concussions, was a bold one. To date, the Ivy League is the only college conference to end full-contact football practices in the regular season. The C.F.L., which will crown its champion on Sunday in the Grey Cup, also added a third bye week to its 18-game calendar so there would be more time between games for players to recover. The moves were not entirely welcomed by coaches and general managers, coming in the middle of the season. But the league commissioner has stood by them. “This is a way for us to improve our game and keep it at the forefront and be progressive,” said Randy Ambrosie, who played nine seasons in the C.F.L. and became commissioner of the nine-team league in July. “I know change is hard, and sometimes you have to make the bold decision in order to move things forward. That’s the way the world works.” Although it may be hard to imagine the N.F.L. following suit — it, too, has cut the number of practices with hits during the season, but not as drastically — the Canadian league is more in line with progressive football associations that believe reducing hits during practice is a way to improve long-term player health and reassure skeptics that the game can be played safely. While some coaches and players questioned the need to jettison all 17 contact practices during the season, the C.F.L.’s commissioner said that improving the health of the players would not only extend their careers, but also battle the growing perception among parents that tackle football is too dangerous for their children. Though the C.F.L. generates far less revenue than the N.F.L., it, too, has been hit with lawsuits by former players accusing the league of hiding the dangers of concussions. Ambrosie’s predecessor, Jeffrey Orridge, was criticized last year for saying, despite a growing consensus among scientists, that there was no conclusive evidence that repeated head hits were linked to chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or C.T.E., a degenerative brain disease. (In an interview, Ambrosie echoed that view.) Like the N.F.L., the C.F.L. has taken several steps to address player safety, including adding spotters to help detect when players have head injuries and increasing the testing for them. The league is also taking part in an N.F.L.-funded study that is looking at new rehabilitation techniques to improve recovery from concussions. Since 2011, N.F.L. teams have been allowed to hold only 14 contact practices during each season, down from an unlimited number before. A league spokesman, Brian McCarthy, said that the N.F.L. had no plans to change the number of practices or the way they were handled, but that it would seek information from its Canadian counterpart on the results of its policy change. Safety experts acknowledge that both decisions might only reduce but not eliminate injuries, particularly the repeated hits to the head that have been linked to degenerative brain disease. But they say that fewer padded practices can still help players in the long run by reducing wear and tear on the body and the brain. “It’s pretty obvious: Less contact equals fewer injuries,” said Terry O’Neil, who founded Practice Like Pros, a group that promotes reduced contact in practices. “It’s that simple.” Football programs that no longer hold full-contact practices have seen injuries plummet. Buddy Teevens, the coach at Dartmouth, a member of the Ivy League, said the number of concussions in practices and games at his college had fallen by 80 percent since 2011, when he stopped contact practices during the season and began focusing on better tackling techniques using robotic dummies. The reduction in head hits during the week has also made players less vulnerable on game days. “The preconcussive hits you don’t get on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday don’t lead to big hits on Saturday,” he said. “That’s the encouraging thing — the in-game injuries have been reduced as well.” The C.F.L. said it would take a full year to determine how many injuries the new policies helped to prevent. Anecdotally, players say they have felt fresher longer this season. This has been particularly true for linemen, who collide with other players dozens of times a game, and even more during contact practices. “You basically get in a car accident every game with the amount of contact we have, so we don’t need to be doing that during the week as well,” said Patrick Neufeld, an offensive lineman on the Blue Bombers who said he believed the number of injuries had declined. “Being able to step on the field on game day and feel kind of fresh has been awesome.” Neufeld said that the tempo at practices without pads had not changed, but that players were forced to focus more on footwork, hand movements and tackling techniques. Defensive players, for instance, simulate tackling by wrapping their arms around offensive players and then quickly releasing them. Players, he added, still wear pads in practices during training camp and the preseason, as well as in games. The biggest difference, he and other players said, has been the extra time to recover during the 18-game regular season, which includes a number of weeks in which two games are played. Older players, in particular, benefit from the absence of padded practices and the extra bye week. Andrew Harris, a running back on the Blue Bombers who has played six years in the C.F.L., said that while younger players might be eager to prove their worth by hitting hard in practice, veterans understood that preserving their bodies for game day was more important. “Some guys need to get jacked up every day or every week to work their craft,” he said. “But that’s how the game is evolving, and you have to learn to evolve with the league.” Harris and other players said that while they welcomed the end of padded practices in the season, most coaches, in the past, would stop holding padded practices late in the season on their own. Still, some coaches said they liked the option of holding padded practices, and were dismayed that they were reduced without consulting them. Coaches used the practices to evaluate how hard younger players blocked and hit, particularly the many players from the United States who are new to the Canadian version of the game, which requires that linemen start each play at least a yard off the ball. They also helped running backs practice sliding through tight gaps between linemen. Banning hitting during the season also makes it harder to evaluate whether a player is prepared to return from an injury. “There are a lot of things that get lost when you decide to throw pads away,” said Jason Maas, the coach of the Eskimos, whom the Blue Bombers were preparing to play, and a former quarterback. “With pads, you get true contact.” Maas said the league should consider alternatives like a padded practice every few weeks or padded practicing for limited periods each week. Though effects are hard to quantify, players and coaches believe some features of the C.F.L. game may make it safer than the version played in the United States. The field is 10 yards longer and 12 yards wider, while the end zones are 10 yards deeper, giving players more room to run without colliding with other players. Starting defensive linemen at least a yard off the line of scrimmage, in theory, gives offensive linemen more time to brace before being hit and to stand upright to avoid helmet hits. Teams have 12 players on a side, though the extra player is usually a wide receiver, not a lineman, who typically absorbs more head hits, and a defensive back. The league’s 18-game schedule requires more short weeks. The Ottawa Redblacks, for instance, played three games in an 11-day stretch this season. Ambrosie, who endured his fair share of injuries, as well as one concussion, during his career, said that as commissioner, he was obliged to err on the side of caution and see what happens. “This was a conscientious effort to make the game safer,” he said. “The only way we’re going to know is to try it and let the data drive us to some conclusion.”