 TORONTO — The Knicks let a poor shooting performance contribute to a dismal defensive effort. It all added up to their eighth consecutive loss to the Toronto Raptors. Toronto’s Kyle Lowry matched his season high with 22 points and added 10 assists, and DeMar DeRozan also scored 22 as the short-handed Raptors beat the Knicks, 107-84, on Friday night. The Knicks’ Kristaps Porzingis shot 3 for 13 while Tim Hardaway Jr. finished 5 for 11. The team shot 30 for 92 over all, for its lowest field goal percentage of the season. “It was us missing a lot of good shots,” Porzingis said. “Just not in our rhythm. As the game went on, we still were struggling finding our rhythm and finding the best positions to attack from. It was just a rough night for us.” Hardaway and Porzingis each scored 13 points, and Enes Kanter had 12 for the Knicks, who fell behind by double-digits in a poor-shooting first half and couldn’t recover. “We let our offense affect us on the defensive end,” Kanter said. “We’re not going to shoot the ball well every night, but it can’t affect us defensively.” DeRozan scored 16 in the second half, and Lowry finished with eight rebounds as Toronto won its third straight and improved to 5-1 at home. “Those guys are great players,” Knicks Coach Jeff Hornacek said of Lowry and DeRozan. “When they’re rolling and they’re going, all of a sudden the other guys get open looks.” Toronto played without two injured starters — forward Serge Ibaka (swollen left knee) and guard Norman Powell (right hip). Reserve guard Delon Wright (dislocated right shoulder) also was unavailable. C.J. Miles scored 14 points for Toronto. Pressed into the starting lineup, second-year forward Pascal Siakam scored 13 points, and rookie forward OG Anunoby had 11. Raptors Coach Dwane Casey was pleased with his team’s defense, especially Siakam’s effort on Porzingis. “I thought he did as good a job as you can do against Porzingis, who is a very dynamic offensive player,” Casey said. Porzingis agreed that Siakam had presented challenges for him. “He’s long and he was able to stab at the ball pretty good when I was playing in the post,” Porzingis said. “He did a really good job of that.”