 GANGNEUNG, South Korea — The American figure skater Adam Rippon is known for his grace on the ice, his sassy social media presence and his outspoken political views. But it’s his gold medal physique that has been generating the most buzz. “Putting the ripped in Rippon,” one Instagram follower said, commenting on a photo of Rippon shirtless and holding a cup of coffee. “Basically I burn the hell out of my abs so if I take a picture, they look nice,” Rippon said with a laugh. He helped the United States win a bronze medal in the team competition this week and finished seventh in the men’s short program. So how did he get those abs? After bouts with disordered eating, Rippon, 28, now adheres to a healthier, high-protein diet, rich in fruits and vegetables, and a grueling gym workout to give him the stability and strength he needs to spin, jump and twirl in the air. Six days a week, he works with Steve Zim, a Hollywood fitness trainer whose clients have included Christian Bale and Michael Keaton. “I do medicine ball work, Russian twists, weights — anything that’s going to melt my abs,” Rippon said. “It keeps you stable and strong in the air. If you’re tired, you’re saved by your core.” Here’s Rippon’s workout for his abdominal muscles, as described by Zim. Breathing: Breathing is everything when it comes to abs. If you want ripped abs, you need to allow them to contract. Before every move, breathe out. Pull your belly button into the spine and continue breathing out as you’re contracting, so your abdominal wall is sinking into you. You’re essentially making room for your abs to contract fully by pushing air out. Abs Stretch &amp; Small Situps: We start out by stretching Adam’s abs on one of those big large Swiss balls before we start doing any contraction. I think of the abdominal muscles as having four sections — upper, middle, lower and sides. Most people develop only the upper part. Adam is on his back, draped over the ball, legs extended and stretching for one minute. Next he does a series of 10 small situps while still on the ball. He plants his feet on the ground, hands behind his head and he lifts up so he’s parallel to the floor. He breathes out, pulls his belly button in and comes up four inches, like a small crunch. Then he breathes in and goes back to parallel with the ground. He breathes out and goes up again. He does this 10 times. It’s very slow. It’s waking up the abdominal area, particularly the lower abs. After 10 small situps, he drapes over the ball again for a one-minute stretch. (Three to five sets of one-minute stretch and 10 situps.) Bosu Twist: A Bosu ball looks like a half moon — it has a flat side. Adam stretches out with his head touching the ground, feet in front of him, and we put the Bosu ball in the small of his back. He bends his right knee, foot flat and his left leg remains extended. Hands behind his head, he breathes out, pulls belly button in and brings his right elbow to the outside of his left knee so he crosses over. Once he got strong, we added a five-pound ankle weight and a 10-pound plate behind his head. (Four sets of 20 repetitions — 10 on one side, then 10 on the other.) Oblique Stretch With Bar: For this exercise, Adam uses a five-foot tube that is filled with water, but any lightweight bar at the gym will do. Take the bar and put it over your head, stretching the obliques, which are the muscles on the side of the torso that allow us to twist. Hold for three seconds. Start leaning to the right side, allowing the weight of the bar to pull you down. Breathe out on the way down and hold for three seconds. Drive back up to the center and repeat to the other side. You can’t go fast. This teaches stabilization and lengthens obliques. (Four sets of 20 — alternating right and left side.) Twisting Ball Toss: Use a hyperextension chair, which sits at a 45-degree incline. Adam hangs face down in the chair with the cushion supporting him on the hips. For this exercise, Adam uses a 25-pound medicine ball, but you can use a lighter weight, even a five-pound ball or no ball at all. It is best to have someone with you, but you can modify the exercise so you can do it alone. Start in the bent-over position on the chair with the ball on the floor a little to the left. Put both hands on the ball. Lift and rotate your body so you can throw the ball to your right. Basically, Adam reaches for the ball on his left and twists to whip the ball to the right. For Adam, this is functional because he’s jumping and rotating on the ice. This should burn, but if it’s really hurting, then stop. Start off slow without a weighted ball and just go through the twist and the motion. Then add the weighted ball. If you don’t have a partner, just lift the ball up and twist but don’t throw. Make sure you only do one side 10 times and then do the other side. If you go back and forth you can wrench your back. (Four sets of 20; 10 on the right, 10 on the left.)  Elevated Running Man: Adam hangs from straps in a metal cage, and wears a resistance band around each ankle that is also connected to the nearest cage post. He drives his left knee up toward his right elbow, crossing his body to create resistance. It makes the abs really strong, and it’s connecting the lower part of the body up through the abs to the upper body. It mimics the movement they do on the ice when you see them jump and cross their legs. If we end the workout with this, we’ll do sets of 20. But if it’s early in the abs workout, we’ll do 40. (Four sets of 20; alternating right and left side.) Twisting Pike: Adam hangs from the straps again and he holds a smaller, 35-millimeter Swiss therapy ball between his ankles. Next he lifts his legs to a pike position, so his legs are parallel to the floor. He twists to the right as far as he can, and then to the left. He twists right, left, right, left — it’s not easy. It’s mimicking what the ab does internally when he’s jumping and rotating. It isolates the abdominal area, but we want to balance between the abdominal area and the rest of the body, so that’s why he does these more connecting movements. You don’t want to overdevelop one part. Everything is symmetrical and balanced. (Four sets of 20; alternating right and left side.) Recovery Meal: After the workout, I require Adam to eat within 30 minutes. He eats protein — chicken, fish or beef and maybe a salad. You need your carbs, but nobody needs bread, pasta or rice. He gets his carbs from fruits and vegetables, like yams. Change It Up: Every workout, we change the order and maybe add something different. The body gets bored, so we like to mix up the order every time. Save Abs for the End: Because the abdominal muscles work together with the muscles in the back to protect the spine, you don’t want to tire them out at the beginning of a workout. We always save the ab work for the end of the training day. We’ll spend 25 minutes on abs, but it’s always the last thing, our big finale.