 With spring training opening in Florida and Arizona next week, the camp of unsigned free agents has lost its ace. Yu Darvish, perhaps the most prominent pitcher left on the frigid open market, has agreed to a six-year, $126 million deal to join the Chicago Cubs. The agreement, first reported by Ken Rosenthal of The Athletic, was confirmed by a baseball official who was granted anonymity because Darvish must pass a physical for the deal to be official. It is the richest contract given to any free agent this off-season, both in years and dollars, surpassing outfielder Lorenzo Cain’s five-year, $80 million deal with the Milwaukee Brewers. Darvish, 31, is a four-time All-Star who beat the Cubs in the National League Championship Series last fall as a member of the Los Angeles Dodgers. He is 56-42 with a 3.42 earned run average in five seasons, mostly with the Texas Rangers, and his 11.04 strikeouts per nine innings lead all active pitchers with at least 100 starts. Including the postseason, Darvish won six of his first 11 starts after the Dodgers acquired him from Texas in a trade last July 31. But he was the goat of the World Series, allowing nine runs and collecting only 10 outs while losing Games 3 and 7 to the Houston Astros. Darvish was relieved in Game 7 by Brandon Morrow, who worked in every game of the World Series and is now the Cubs’ closer. The Cubs signed Morrow to a two-year, $21 million deal in December to replace Wade Davis, who went on to sign with the Colorado Rockies. Besides Darvish and Morrow, the Cubs have also signed Tyler Chatwood, the former Colorado right-hander who thrived outside of Coors Field last season, to a three-year, $38 million contract in early December. Darvish and Chatwood join Jon Lester, Jose Quintana and Kyle Hendricks in a rotation that should be imposing. The agreement effectively ends the Cubs’ tenure of Jake Arrieta, who won a Cy Young Award, threw two no-hitters and helped the Cubs win the 2016 World Series. Arrieta, who is also 31, is among the many accomplished free agents who remain unsigned, including Eric Hosmer, J. D. Martinez, Mike Moustakas, Greg Holland, Carlos Gonzalez and Carlos Gomez. All of those players are represented by the agent Scott Boras, whose clients often wait deep into the off-season, or beyond, to sign. Boras, whose company operates its own sports-fitness facilities, does not plan to send his clients to the players association camp for unsigned players, which is expected to open next week at the IMG Academy in Bradenton, Fla. Among the dozens of unsigned free agents are starters Alex Cobb, Lance Lynn, Jason Vargas and Andrew Cashner; relievers Tony Watson, Francisco Liriano and Bud Norris; first basemen Lucas Duda, Matt Holliday, Logan Morrison, Mike Napoli and Mark Reynolds; catchers A. J. Ellis, Jonathan Lucroy, Carlos Ruiz and Chris Stewart; outfielders Melky Cabrera, Jarrod Dyson, Jon Jay and Cameron Maybin; and second basemen Brandon Phillips, Chase Utley and Neil Walker.