 It was a season Formula One has long craved. The outcome was familiar, with Mercedes winning the constructors’ and drivers’ championships for the fourth consecutive year, becoming only the fourth team to achieve such a feat alongside Ferrari, McLaren and Red Bull. But unlike the previous three years, when Mercedes dominated and the focus was on an intrateam battle between its drivers, Lewis Hamilton and Nico Rosberg, this time Ferrari and its driver Sebastian Vettel challenged Mercedes deep into the 20-race season. But Mercedes took the championship in October, at the United States Grand Prix in Austin, Tex., and Hamilton clinched his fourth title at the next grand prix, in Mexico, with two races to spare. Only Michael Schumacher, with seven, and Juan Manuel Fangio, with five, have now won more drivers’ championships. “This has definitely been my strongest year of driving,” Hamilton said in an interview. “I remember back in my debut season of 2007, I had this driving strength across the first nine races when I was so consistent. I’ve had that again this year, but backed by so much more experience, so much more skill and finesse than I had back then, and obviously with the strategic mind to be able to navigate my way through the year. “It’s definitely been an enjoyable one.” The Liberty Media Corporation, the Colorado-based company that is the sport’s new owner, could not have asked for a more enthralling campaign after completing its purchase of a 35.5 percent stake in Formula One in late January. It was also the first time in 43 years that Bernie Ecclestone was not running Formula One. On the track, there was vitality, with the cars having a new look after the introduction of new regulations. There were wider front and rear wings and tires, designed to make them faster, with more downforce and grip. In the preseason, Toto Wolff, the Mercedes team principal, described the cars as “real monsters.” They did not disappoint once the racing began in Melbourne, Australia, on March 26. By the checkered flag at Albert Park, Mercedes, and Wolff, knew it had a fight on its hands. Vettel beat Hamilton by almost 10 seconds, claiming his, and Ferrari’s, first victory in 28 grands prix. When Vettel emerged from the sixth race of the season in Monaco with his third win of the year, to add to three second-place finishes in the other races, he held a 25-point lead on Hamilton. There was a sense that a changing of the guard was looming. Two races later, in Azerbaijan, it appeared as if a bitter rivalry was also starting when Vettel deliberately ran into Hamilton when the safety car was on track. Vettel said he believed that Hamilton, who was just ahead of him in first, had brake-tested him (in which a driver touches his brakes to test the reaction of the driver behind him) moments earlier, resulting in a collision that damaged both cars. Vettel received a 10-second stop-go penalty en route to finishing fourth, incurring Hamilton’s anger after the race. “Deliberately driving into another driver and getting away pretty much scot-free, as he still came fourth, I think that’s a disgrace,” said Hamilton, who was fifth. “I think he disgraced himself today.” The International Automobile Federation, motorsport’s governing body, investigated, but ultimately cleared Vettel, although he apologized to Hamilton and the organization. “I realize that I was not setting a good example,” Vettel said in a statement at the time. “I had no intention at any time to put Lewis in danger, but I understand that I caused a dangerous situation.” At the halfway point of the campaign, Hamilton stirred his home crowd at the British Grand Prix on July 16, winning his fourth race of the year to close the gap to Vettel at the top of the drivers’ standings to one point. Hamilton’s new Mercedes teammate, Valtteri Bottas, was second. It was Bottas’s seventh top-three finish, including wins in Russia and Austria. At 23 points behind Vettel, Bottas was as close as he would come to the drivers’ championship. Heading into Formula One’s summer break, Vettel won the next race in Hungary, in which Bottas and Hamilton finished third and fourth. Vettel was then ahead by 14 points. After the break, Hamilton began to shoot ahead, winning five of six races, finishing second in the sixth, accumulating 143 points of a possible 150. Vettel took just 63. The pivotal race was Singapore on Sept. 17. Vettel had the pole position, with Hamilton only fifth on the grid at a track that Mercedes knew would not suit its car, but Vettel crashed out after being involved in a first-corner collision with Max Verstappen of Red Bull, and Kimi Raikkonen of Ferrari. At the next race in Malaysia, Vettel started last on the grid because of an engine issue, finishing fourth to Hamilton’s second, with Verstappen giving Red Bull its second win of the year after his teammate Daniel Ricciardo had triumphed in Azerbaijan. A spark plug failure hit Vettel’s car in Japan, the next race, leaving him trailing by 59 points. Mercedes wrapped up its fourth successive constructors’ title after Hamilton won in the United States. Hamilton then finished ninth in Mexico, enough to claim the drivers’ championship, even though Vettel placed fourth. “Over all, I think it was very positive this year,” Vettel said. “Nobody expected Ferrari to be that strong. Of course, if you miss out, it sort of sucks. “But you have to be fair as well. We weren’t very competitive last year, we weren’t very good at developing the car, but we’ve made massive progress this year. “So even if you look at the chance that maybe you missed, you have to give credit to all the team for the step we made. We can all feel we’re getting stronger, so hopefully, we can carry that strength into the next couple of years, not just next year, because our objective is to bring Ferrari back properly, get there and dominate. That’s what we want to do.” Wolff conceded it was fear that drove his team to success again. “With Ferrari coming up, there is this fear — that we’re trying to channel into motivation and energy — that you might be beaten by a competitor,” Wolff said in an interview. “The fear of losing drives us much more than the joy of winning. The fear lasts longer and is more painful. “That fear, which eventually turned into extreme motivation in the team, drove us to never stop pursuing our own targets in every department in the company. We knew if we kept the level of performance high — sheer car performance, reliability, race craft — that eventually it would all add up.” Also notable was the performance of McLaren, which had another wretched year, finishing ninth in the constructors’ championship, because of a litany of failures of its Honda-supplied power unit. Next year, McLaren will be powered by Renault. “It was not a good season,” said Fernando Alonso, a McLaren driver. ‘To be ninth in the constructors’ championship, to have used up so many engines, it cannot be a good season for anyone in the team. “Despite progress, it wasn’t noticeable what we did with the car. But we have optimism for next year. Inside the team, we all believe it will be a fantastic 2018 season. We have that mood in the team.” Red Bull also had a largely disappointing season, but with hope for next year after a strong second half. In an interview, Christian Horner, the team principal, said, “We’ve developed the car well after a slow start, and all those lessons we can carry into 2018.”