 OKLAHOMA CITY — Russell Westbrook and Paul George were teammates for nearly three months before Carmelo Anthony finally blessed the capital of Oklahoma as a destination worthy of waiving his no-trade clause. The mere opportunity to team up with Westbrook and George and form a potential Superteam, as they’re known in the modern N.B.A., wasn’t enough for immediate acceptance. Nor was the secret-weapon recruiting presence of the Thunder assistant general manager Troy Weaver, who had helped Anthony land at Syracuse University as a teenager. In an interview with The New York Times this week, during a break from preparations for his Thunder debut, Anthony revealed that he needed one more nudge before telling the Knicks last month that, yes, he was prepared to be traded to Oklahoma City. “My son said he wanted me to play for OKC,” Anthony said. “Even before OKC was in the picture.’’ Anthony proudly told that story on Tuesday afternoon after practice, lounging on a comfortable courtside bench while watching his son, Kiyan Carmelo Anthony, who is 10, work on his one-on-one moves against some Thunder staffers and, for a few minutes, Westbrook himself. On Thursday night here, Anthony will start at power forward for the Thunder and is likely to line up against the Knicks’ new face of the franchise — Kristaps Porzingis — in a nationally televised reunion. In the interview, Anthony insisted he held “no grudge” against the Knicks even after a 2016-17 season that he found so rocky and turmoil-ridden that it made it hard for him “to enjoy the game.’’ “You want it to work out so bad, for so many years, and it doesn’t work out — it’s not fun anymore,” Anthony said. He said the nagging sense that Phil Jackson, who was then the Knicks’ president, was “forcing me out,” gradually snuffed out his devotion to the franchise. “When I signed back with the Knicks, I wanted to be in New York and I believed in Phil,” Anthony added in reference to the $125 million contract with the no-trade clause that he agreed to with Jackson in July 2014, a deal that kept him from departing as a free agent. “Then last year it went to: I was being pushed out. There were things being said about me that I didn’t know where they were coming from. And I still had to go in that gym and play and practice and deal with the media, answer all those questions every day.” Asked how many times he and Jackson spoke face to face last season, Anthony said, “Maybe twice.” “There was no support from the organization,” he said. “When you feel like you’re on your own and then on top of that you feel like you’re being pushed out …” His voice trailed off, but his implication was clear. Anthony’s long-held determination to outlast Jackson in New York had eroded, and even after Jackson’s departure from the Knicks in late June he no longer wanted to stick around. “I think at that point it was too far gone,” Anthony said. “I already had in my mind that I wanted to win, that I wanted to move on. We didn’t think it would take as long as it did, but my mind was already made up.” The delay to find a workable trade, in Anthony’s view, stemmed from the fact that Jackson was willing “to trade me for a bag of chips,” while Scott Perry, who became the Knicks’ new general manager after Jackson’s departure, took a harder line in trade talks with Houston and Cleveland that eventually fizzled. “They went from asking for peanuts to asking for steak,” Anthony said with a laugh. It was easy for Anthony to laugh, because a deal did ultimately take shape with the Thunder, one that puts him on the most talented team (Olympics aside) he’s ever been a part of. Still, as the start of Knicks training camp approached in September, there was no trade yet in sight and it was at that stage that Anthony abruptly instructed family members and his agent, Leon Rose, to “take the geography out of it” and start suggesting anywhere to play in the N.B.A. that made sense. Or almost anywhere. Portland Trail Blazers star guards Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum had recruited Anthony all summer, but he remained resistant to the concept of a move all the way across the country to the Pacific Northwest. Instead, it gradually became clear, with input from those closest to Anthony, including Kiyan, that the Oklahoma City option was becoming the most appealing. “My son has a basketball mind,” Anthony said. “So I will always throw little topics at him. He was like, ‘Dad, where you getting traded to?’ I told him, ‘I don’t know, where do you think I should go?’ He said: ‘You really want me to give you my opinion? I think you should go to OKC.’ “It worked out,” Anthony added. The ultimate judgment on that will actually take a while, but there is no disputing that Anthony, at 33, looks and sounds content in his new surroundings after hearing for months that his ball-stopping ways were stunting Porzingis and the Knicks. And for all the understandable uncertainty about how Westbrook, George and Anthony will mesh offensively, how could Oklahoma City resist the gamble? One year after losing Kevin Durant to Golden State, Thunder General Manager Sam Presti deftly acquired both George and Anthony without surrendering a single future first-round draft choice. He was undeterred by the uncertain futures of both George and Anthony, who share the ability to become free agents in July, and in making the moves he did, he was able to shift center Steven Adams to a more befitting status as the club’s fourth-best player. There will be questions about Oklahoma City’s defense and depth in comparison to the Warriors and Cavaliers, but it seems safe to suggest that the Thunder, as the team meshes, is bound to look more imposing next April than it will on Thursday night or even in Anthony’s Madison Square Garden return on Dec. 16. And after Westbrook uncorked a record-setting 42 triple-doubles last season to power undermanned Oklahoma City to 47 victories and emerge as the league’s most valuable player, it won’t be all on him this time — if he’s prepared to accept the assistance. “We discuss that every day,” Anthony said. “Me, Russell, PG — we talk every day about not having to carry a team on a night-to-night basis. Mark Jackson, who is now an ESPN commentator but once was the starting point guard on the Knicks, asserted earlier this month that Anthony, in a manner reminiscent of Jackson’s former teammate Patrick Ewing, will be more fondly remembered by New Yorkers now that he’s gone. Similar sentiments were voiced by Raymond Felton, who is now a backup guard on the Thunder. He met Anthony in their high school days, played alongside him with the Knicks and now ranks as a key member of the Oklahoma City welcoming committee. “It’s not about where you’re at,” Felton said. “It’s about how you feel where you’re at. I don’t care if we were in South Dakota; we come in here happy. “He’s been smiling ever since he got here,” Felton added of Anthony. And addressing the skeptics, Anthony said: “I hate trying to defend myself, but I’ve been saying it since I got here: Whatever conditions you put me in, I’ll thrive.” He is ready to start doing so on Thursday night.