 Sunday features a slate of enormous point spreads, with Las Vegas having firmly decided on which teams are contenders. But even if some blowouts can be expected, there are still plenty of games worth watching, most notably the clash between the Saints and Rams. Here are our picks against the spread. Last week’s record against the spread: 8-5-1 Overall record: 78-77-5 Saints at Rams, 4:25 p.m., CBS Line: Rams by 2.5 That this game is not the Sunday night or Monday night game is a bit of a travesty. Two offenses averaging more than 30 points a game, two defenses giving up fewer than 20. A star quarterback and fantastic running game on both sides. One team trying to get to nine consecutive wins while the other tries to atone for last week’s painful loss. It is not just the best matchup of this week, but one of the best matchups of the season. The Saints (8-2) are riding high after coming back to win in dramatic fashion against Washington. There were elements of old and new in the triumph, with Drew Brees and the passing game taking over in the fourth quarter, but Alvin Kamara, the rookie running back, scored the game-tying touchdown in regulation, while Mark Ingram, his veteran counterpart, provided all of the yardage they needed in overtime to get a game-winning field goal. New Orleans was fairly banged up on defense, however, and likely will be without Marshon Lattimore, a standout rookie defensive back. That could help the Rams (7-3) survive without Robert Woods, who has been a breakout star at wide receiver in recent weeks. If Los Angeles can get back to the way they were playing before last week’s loss, they could end the Saints’ winning streak. Pick: Rams Bears at Eagles, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Eagles by 13.5 The Eagles (9-1) did not end up with the best record in the N.F.L. by chance. Their defense puts enormous pressure on opposing quarterbacks on nearly every play, forcing bad throws, and they capitalize on nearly any mistake. Carson Wentz carves up opposing defenses with the efficiency of a far more experienced quarterback, and ever since the team acquired Jay Ajayi, the running game has been just as devastating. To expect a win against the lowly Bears (3-7) is obvious, but oddsmakers created an interesting situation by making the point spread so large. Philadelphia covered a 13-point spread against San Francisco a few weeks ago, and if they do not deviate from the way they’ve played against lesser teams so far this season, they’ll likely go a half-point better this week and cover 13.5 points. Pick: Eagles Packers at Steelers, 8:30 p.m., NBC Line: Steelers by 14 Last week’s 40-17 laugher against Tennessee is the type of game you would expect from the Steelers (8-2) considering the presence of Ben Roethlisberger, Le’Veon Bell, Antonio Brown and a top-tier defense. But their ability to do anything they want offensively against the Titans just underscored how odd it is that their offense has been held to 21 or fewer points six times this season. A hallmark of the season has been Pittsburgh struggling in weeks that seemed like comical mismatches. They barely beat Cleveland in Week 1, lost to the Bears in overtime in Week 3, and needed a dramatic second-half comeback to beat Indianapolis in Week 10. There is a chance they have learned their lessons, and will not likely sleep through a game against the injury-riddled Packers (5-5). But from what the Steelers have shown so far this season, making them huge favorites seems like a recipe for a game that is far closer than anyone expects. Pick: Packers Dolphins at Patriots, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Patriots by 16.5 Coach Bill Belichick of the Patriots (8-2) took time out of his conference call this week to address the Dolphins’ (4-6) quarterback depth chart of Jay Cutler and Matt Moore. “The Dolphins have very good depth at quarterback,” Belichick said on a conference call with the Miami media Wednesday. “Both players are outstanding players. They can throw the ball well, they’re smart, they can handle the different looks that Coach Gase gives them to make the defense declare what they’re in and then attack it.” The Dolphins are averaging 15.7 points a game, the second-worst figure in the N.F.L., and their overall quarterback rating is the sixth-worst at 79.6. Conclusion: Belichick is far more generous than most people give him credit for. Miami should in no way be expected to truly compete in this game, but they get the pick based on a spread that is simply too high for a game that does not involve some sort of personal vendetta. Pick: Dolphins Jaguars at Cardinals, 4:25 p.m., CBS Line: Jaguars by 5.5 Through the first seven games of the season, the Jaguars (7-3) were allowing an average of 138.6 rushing yards a game. It was clearly the team’s weak link, as their pass-rush and secondary were both superb, and their offense, while not always pretty, tended to get the job done. The addition of Marcell Dareus, and some increased emphasis on slowing down opposing running backs, has resulted in Jacksonville allowing a measly 55.3 yards a game on the ground over the last three weeks. The matchup could be seen as a revenge game for Cardinals (4-6) quarterback Blaine Gabbert, but it is hard to figure out what he would want revenge against the Jaguars for, considering he was paid a large sum of money by them to play very poorly. Pick: Jaguars Panthers at Jets, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Panthers by 4.5 Cam Newton’s smile is one of the biggest tells in all of sports. If the talented but erratic quarterback of the Panthers (7-3) looks happy, the opposing team is in a whole lot of trouble. Newton will have a lot to be happy about this week when he gets his favorite target, Greg Olsen, back from an extended injury absence. Olsen, one of the game’s best tight ends, is a central figure in Carolina’s offense, and his presence will allow Christian McCaffrey to focus more on developing as a runner rather than a receiver, while also allowing the team’s young wide receivers to have some more space on the field to get open since opposing defenses are likely to key in on Olsen. The Jets have been an underdog at home five times this season and in all five games they either won or beat the spread. That perfect record, at least as far as gamblers are concerned, appears to be in jeopardy. Pick: Panthers Bills at Chiefs, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Chiefs by 10 The Bills (5-5) may not think Tyrod Taylor is a long-term solution at quarterback, but they found out last week that Nathan Peterman is certainly not capable of handling things in the short-term. The rookie quarterback only completed 6 of his 14 passes, and he threw as many interceptions last week (five) as Taylor did in his last 15 games. The loss knocked Buffalo out of the A.F.C.’s second wild-card spot, and the team’s downward spiral does not look like it will slow its rate of descent this week against the Chiefs (6-4), as Buffalo’s pitiful run defense will most likely let Kareem Hunt get back to running like he had in the season’s first few weeks. That being said, Kansas City has not done anything recently to warrant a double-digit point spread. Pick: Bills Buccaneers at Falcons, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Falcons by 9.5 The Falcons (6-4) have every right to be excited by consecutive wins after a stretch in which the team could seemingly do nothing right, but last week’s narrow win over Seattle raised a red flag that Atlanta’s ability to close out wins is still far less than ideal. Playing at home against the Buccaneers (4-6), a team with far bigger problems, Atlanta should get a third consecutive win, but until they can look as strong in the fourth quarter as they did in the first three, giving them 9.5 points in the spread does not seem logical. Pick: Buccaneers Seahawks at 49ers, 4:05 p.m., Fox Line: Seahawks by 6.5 The Legion of Boom, 2011-2017. The Seahawks (6-4) have terrified opponents for years with a secondary known for crushing blows and heartbreaking interceptions. But that group is gone. With Kam Chancellor and Richard Sherman out for the year, Earl Thomas slowed by a hamstring injury, and Shaquill Griffin out this week with a concussion, they are now a team relying on guys like Jeremy Lane, who they tried to trade away just a few weeks ago. The fall from grace was swift, and it may be permanent with Sherman’s injury being career-threatening for a player of his position and age, and Chancellor not getting any younger. With the 49ers (1-9) choosing to start C.J. Beathard at quarterback rather than Jimmy Garoppolo, Seattle can likely cover the spread, but if the Niners switch to their more talented backup at any point, all bets are off. Pick: Seahawks Titans at Colts, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Titans by 3 The Colts (3-7) are not very good, but teams underestimate them each week, resulting in a lot of games where the score seems closer than it should be. That likely explains the tight point spread in a game against the Titans (6-4) despite the Titans having serious advantages on both sides of the ball. If Tennessee can play anywhere near the team’s actual ability, this should be an easy win on the road. Pick: Titans Broncos at Raiders, 4:25 p.m., CBS Line: Raiders by 5 The collapse of the Broncos (3-7) over the last few years is fairly easy to explain: They were unprepared for Peyton Manning’s retirement at quarterback and their star-studded defense was weakened greatly by players seeking riches elsewhere, as well as the team’s bad decision to let their defensive coordinator, Wade Phillips, leave for Los Angeles. Figuring out the implosion by the Raiders (4-6) is trickier, since they returned just about the entire team from last year when they were considered a Super Bowl contender before Derek Carr was lost for the season with a broken leg. On offense, they definitely have issues on the right side of their offensive line, where Gabe Jackson and Vadal Alexander offer below-average protection, but the bigger issue might simply be a bad season by Amari Cooper, and some regression to the mean by Carr in terms of late-game heroics. If playing at home against a hated division rival cannot wake them up, nothing can. Pick: Raiders Browns at Bengals, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Bengals by 8 The state of Ohio can surely find better things to do than watch the Browns (0-10) try to beat the Bengals (4-6). Pick: Browns Texans at Ravens, 8:30 p.m., ESPN Line: Ravens by 7 It is not safe for players who thrive for the Texans (4-6). They lost J.J. Watt and Whitney Mercilus to season-ending injuries on defense, then after reworking themselves into an offense-first team, they lost rookie quarterback Deshaun Watson to injury as well. They appeared to be in free-fall, but were led to victory last week in part by a breakout rushing performance by D’Onta Foreman. Naturally, he tore his Achilles’ tendon and is expected to be out for the season. The Ravens (5-5) have shut out their opponents in two of the last three weeks, but they also had a stretch in which they lost five of seven games. There is no way of telling which version of the team will show up on Monday night, but they are fairly likely to win and it is reasonable to expect them to cover the spread. Pick: Ravens Vikings at Lions, 12:30 p.m., Fox Line: Vikings by 3 Matthew Stafford claims a turkey dinner tastes better after a win on Thanksgiving, and the quarterback of the Lions (6-4) should know after winning his team’s annual holiday game in each of the last four seasons. This year’s game carries with it the added weight of being an absolute must-win against a streaking division rival. If Detroit wants to retain any hope of winning the N.F.C. North, they will need to find an answer for Case Keenum and the Vikings (8-2). Last week Minnesota cut the high-powered Los Angeles Rams offense off at the knees, limiting them to just seven points, while finding room to work against a well-coached defense. While the Lions are probably not as talented as the Rams on either offense or defense, they play well at home and they have enough confidence in Stafford to let him keep throwing even if things start off poorly. For as good as Keenum has been this season, there is a reason he was never deemed the answer at quarterback anywhere else — even his own team was discussing their preference for Teddy Bridgewater just a few weeks ago — and he can be expected to fall back to Earth at some point. This game seems like a fairly reasonable time for that to happen, which could turn the N.F.C. North into a sprint to the finish rather than a cakewalk for Minnesota. Pick: Lions Chargers at Cowboys, 4:30 p.m., CBS Line: Chargers by 2.5 The situation got dire in Dallas awfully quickly once Ezekiel Elliott’s suspension took effect. The Cowboys (5-5) have dropped back to .500 and Dak Prescott has looked like a shell of himself in a pair of lopsided losses. While Elliott still has several weeks until he is eligible to return, Dallas is expected to get Tyron Smith back this week, which could potentially be even more important. As the team’s left tackle, Smith is charged with protecting Prescott’s blind side, and he doubles as an elite run blocker. If he can get Prescott some time to throw, and open up some holes for Alfred Morris to run through, then Dallas can find some semblance of the team that had won three consecutive games before losing to Atlanta and Philadelphia. The Chargers (4-6) have turned around their season, and are no pushovers, but with Smith back for Dallas, Los Angeles likely should not be favorites on the road. Pick: Cowboys Giants at Redskins, 8:30 p.m., NBC Line: Redskins by 7.5 The Redskins (4-6) might be the best losing team in the N.F.L. Every week they seem to put their opponents through the ringer, but somehow they have lost more often than they have won. While last week’s loss can at least somewhat be blamed on Kirk Cousins for a penalty in the waning moments of the game that prevented Washington from kicking a game-winning field goal, he also spent the first 50-plus minutes of the game having more success against New Orleans than anyone has had since the season’s first two weeks. Washington will be limited some in the running game thanks to the loss of Chris Thompson, but Cousins can pass against anyone, and provided Samaje Perine is able to play through a finger injury, the Redskins should be able to beat the Giants (2-8) and the spread. Pick: Redskins