 Michigan State’s basketball coach, Tom Izzo, prefers honesty in its rawest and most brutal form. When Izzo rates talent, especially among his own ranks, he has never been one for hyperbole. So it is notable that when others point to the return of swingman Miles Bridges for a second season at Michigan State as the key to the Spartans’ chances of capturing the N.C.A.A. championship, Izzo shifts the conversation to Cassius Winston, his sophomore point guard. It is Winston, after all, who Izzo believes will be a primary difference-maker in determining his team’s title hopes next spring. So far, it’s going well; No. 3 Michigan State (5-1) has lost only to top-ranked Duke this season, and over the weekend, it warmed up for Thursday night’s game against No. 5 Notre Dame in East Lansing, Mich., with a victory over North Carolina in Portland, Ore. But Izzo being Izzo, and this being November and not March, it is hardly surprising when the coach describes both Winston and the Spartans as unfinished projects. “It’s a process, and he’s taking all the steps, but he’s not a McDonald’s all-American,” Izzo said of Winston after Michigan State’s 88-81 loss to No. 1 Duke on Nov. 14 in Chicago. “So it’s going to take time.” At times against the Blue Devils, Winston calmly ran Michigan State’s offense to precision with artful passes that have long been part of the point guard’s bag of tricks. It is why Izzo has compared him favorably to the former Spartans players Draymond Green and Denzel Valentine, who now play in the N.B.A. But he also turned the ball over five times, and Izzo noted that the spotlight, at times, has appeared too much for a young guard settling into such a pivotal role. “As he gets stronger and better,” Izzo said, “we’re going to get better.” The 6-foot Winston, who started only five games as a freshman, is vowing to learn from his mistakes, and from losses like the Duke defeat. “Not everything is going to be perfect, not everything’s going to go your way,” Winston said. “But if you fight your way through it, keep a strong head, keep your confidence high, you can do anything.” Izzo, at least, sees only upside. From the day he began recruiting Winston as a junior at the University of Detroit Jesuit High School, Izzo placed Winston’s basketball I.Q. among the best he has seen, ranking it from Day 1 alongside those of his former pupils Green and Valentine. In describing Winston’s knack for playmaking and passing ability, though, Izzo reached even higher, comparing his point guard skill set to that of Michigan State royalty: Magic Johnson. “Magic always says that great point guards were born with eyes behind their head and they have a sixth sense,” Izzo said. “He’s got all that. He really does.” Such high praise does not seem to faze Winston. Rather than see pressure in living up to Izzo’s comparisons, Winston has embraced the kind words as motivation to carve out his own place among Michigan State’s basketball greats. “I have to prove people right,” Winston said. “I can’t be a disappointment. I’ve got to work and use that to my benefit to keep getting better and better.” Like his teammates, Winston points to the loss to top-ranked Duke, when the Spartans were No. 2, as a reminder of Michigan State’s potential for greatness and of the consequences that come with a team’s beating itself. On the return trip to East Lansing after that defeat, Winston described the environment as somber, especially for a team that believed it had let itself down in what could have been a season-defining moment. Even in his frustration, however, Winston said he was using the setback as a learning tool, a chance to better understand just how critical a role he must play on a team with bigger talents like Bridges. “He’s a key piece of the puzzle, and if your head guy isn’t clicking on all cylinders, nobody else will be,” Valentine, who is in his second season with the Chicago Bulls, said of Winston. “He’s got a lot of pressure.” Fortunately for Winston, and for Izzo, there is plenty of time to improve. Still, even now, Winston describes himself as the glue that holds all of the Spartans’ talent in place, and Izzo is on the record as saying that his team will go only as far as Winston’s maturation allows. As with the high expectations, Winston is embracing that responsibility. If putting his team on his back is what’s required to get it to what he believes is its rightful place in the national title conversation, Winston said, so be it. “The team feeds off me, feeds off my energy, feeds off the plays I make,” he said. “I’ve got to get people in the right spot, get people into the places where they can be successful. “Anything the team needs me to do to help them win, I have to do it.”