 Louisville players strutted around the court in championship hats, some adorned with a little piece of the net. Cardinals Coach Jeff Walz brushed off confetti dumped on him during an interview to climb the ladder and clip the rest of the nylon, twirling it to celebrate his top-seeded team’s dominant run through the Lexington Region of the women’s N.C.A.A. tournament. “It’s a great feeling,” Walz said. “I’m going to go home, and my 4½-year-old and my 2½-year-old, all they’re going to talk about is the confetti on the floor. That’s all they care about. To them, if we win, there’s confetti on the floor that I get to play on.” Louisville’s next quest is collecting another net and more confetti in next weekend’s Final Four in Columbus, Ohio. Asia Durr scored 18 points, Myisha Hines-Allen added 16, and Louisville earned its first Final Four berth since 2013 with a 76-43 rout of sixth-seeded Oregon State on Sunday in Lexington, Ky. Playing their first regional final in four years and for the first time in team history as an N.C.A.A. No. 1 seed, the Cardinals (36-2) never trailed in rolling to their 11th consecutive victory. They outscored the Beavers by 28-12 in the third quarter to break the game open, and they completed their four-game run through the region by an average margin of victory of 27.5 points. Louisville controlled the paint, 32-18, and scored 24 points off 17 turnovers against an Oregon State squad that had succeeded with precise passing. “If we were able to get stops and go in transition, we were going to be confident,” Hines-Allen said. “Our shots were falling in the second half, and it all came down to defense. If we wanted to win, we had to stop them.” Even more impressive for Louisville: The Cardinals committed just three turnovers, tying an N.C.A.A. tournament record. And they did it despite playing a frenetic pace for much of the game. That style of play helped them get good shots, especially in the final three quarters. “That was huge,” said Durr, who made 4 of 9 shots from 3-point range and 7 of 14 over all. “We love to sprint the ball up the floor, pass the ball up the floor, so that’s pretty much what we try to do.” Durr, who totaled 42 points over the weekend, was named the region’s most outstanding player. Joining her on the all-region team were three teammates — Hines-Allen, Arica Carter and Sam Fuehring — and Oregon State’s Marie Gulich. Feuhring scored 14 points and Carter had 10 for Louisville, which shot 48 percent from the field while playing in front of a sea of red-clad fans, many of whom had traveled just under 80 miles east to watch their team. Louisville, which reached the Final Four in 2009 and 2013 under Walz, losing the championship game both times to Connecticut, is headed to a national semifinal against Mississippi State. The Beavers (26-8), having ousted third-seeded Tennessee and second-seeded Baylor last week, struggled to add Louisville to their list of upset victims. They outrebounded Louisville, 32-28, behind the 6-foot-5 Gulich (14 points and 8 rebounds), but they shot 35 percent in losing just their second game in the past 12. The Beavers initially succeeded in limiting Louisville’s scoring. But they could not make baskets against a rotation of coverages on Gulich and tight defense on others, especially on the perimeter. Keeping pace with the Cardinals’ quickness was another struggle, especially during the third quarter, when Louisville took control. “Hats off to Louisville, they played an outstanding game,” Coach Scott Rueck said. “They were on point defensively, kept us off our spots early. Never let us get comfortable, forced us into turnovers.” MISSISSIPPI STATE 89, U.C.L.A. 73 Teaira McCowan had 23 points and 21 rebounds, Victoria Vivans added 24 points, and top-seeded Mississippi State beat a relentless U.C.L.A. team in Kansas City, Mo., to reach its second straight Final Four. Morgan William added 17 points, and Roshunda Johnson had 12 for the Bulldogs (36-1), who squandered most of an 18-point second-half lead before hanging on to extend their team record for wins in a season and earn a trip to the national semifinals in Columbus, Ohio. They will meet another No. 1 seed in Louisville on Friday night. Jordin Canada led the third-seeded Bruins (27-8) with 23 points, eight rebounds and five assists. Japreece Dean finished with 16 points, and Monique Billings and Kennedy Burke had 12 each, most of them coming when the Bruins were trying to rally from a 50-32 hole. They closed within 74-68 on Dean’s 3-point shot with two minutes and 53 seconds left, but they couldn’t get a stop on the defensive end. Instead, they traded basket-for-basket down the stretch, and Mississippi State managed to clinch the win from the foul line in the final minute. Early on, the Bulldogs followed the same formula they used to rout North Carolina State, relying on McCowan for easy baskets inside. The 6-foot-7 center, who had 24 points in that regional semifinal, scored six during an 11-0 run that gave her team the lead.